P1: I'm pretty good, doing well.Okay. Um, so have you looked at my resume or should I. Alright, so I guess I'm a course six, seven here at mit, uh, which is Computational biology. So it's a mix of computer science and biology. And actually that's where my interests lie in applying like algorithmic kind of software engineering to data sets dealing with genomics and biology. Some of the activities to do outside of school include Camp Kesem, which is a summer camp that we run for completely free for kids whose parents have cancer, as well as, uh, Amphibious Achievement, which is a, uh, high school tutoring program for inner city kids in Boston. So, um, my interest kind of lied both in a little bit of the healthcare. I imagined I was going to be a doctor growing up. And then I came to MIT and I'm like, well, I can do engineering and still apply a lot of these same things and help a lot more people.Okay, um, one of the things that we have to do for campcasem is fundraise all the money to run the camp, which is over $50,000. And so one of the things that I individually spearhead every year is called the Camp SAE Data Auction, where actually my fraternity and I go out and solicit, um, donations in the form of gift cards, uh, to raise money for a date option where we actually sell dates. And then we use this money obviously and we donate it to Chem Keslam. So I spearhead the entire event and I kind of organized everyone into committees and groups and I send people out and make sure everything goes according to plan.Uh, I guess the easiest team project I just had was last semester. Um, I worked on a 6555 project, which is software architecture. And we were put in a group of three people. And it was standard. You know, we signed the contract, everyone's supposed to work equally, but it ended up being by the end of it that someone didn't like put their fair share of work in. Um, essentially we talked to him. We didn't really get it out and we actually had to go to some of the TAs. We got a little bit. Um, and that kind of pushed him forward. So, I mean, I guess what I'm showing is like, I'm not afraid to go to the right methods or authority. Like we're in cases where the situation presents itself.Um, I would say for this job, I'm, um, a little bit technically under prepared. Um, I've only taken the introductory software classes so far, as well as introductory bio classes. But I think just from sheer interest and sheer effort, I'll be able to kind of overcome these obstacles.Uh, I'm very interested in the subject of computational biology, and I think that I'll be able to contribute a lot to this field. Um, I've had a good amount of experience, and I think I'll be a solid intern.Um, so I'm a computer science and biology major here at MIT. I'm a junior and I'm expected to graduate in June 2014. Um, I'm interested in kind of doing both research and, as well as practical application of some type of biological research with computational engineering involved. Sorry, would you like to know more? Yeah. Ah, Bright.Be giving you a funny look. Oh yeah, okay.Um, I do. I would say that when situations present themselves, I step up to the occasion. I'm not afraid, take the lead on a project. Or like, for example, I guess, um, for one of my computer science projects that we were working on, a group together, one of our teammates wasn't working well. I wasn't afraid to kind of step up, take the lead and be like, hey, we gotta get this done. And um, it's happened multiple times before, I guess.Um, so one of the other organizations I do is Camp Kesem and I'm actually on their exec board. And so a lot of, uh, what we do is we plan out the summer camp for kids whose parents have cancer. And a lot of times we're just debating simply like how we want to get, uh, or how we want to have the whole camp, you know, uh, kind of go day by day. We need to plan the whole schedule. And so we have a lot of conflict because everyone has all these different ideas. And this is a very team oriented board. And although it's got the normal hierarchical structure, uh, we do a lot of things like just simply by mapping things out on the board and visualizing the day and schedules and planning between us and what the teams have to do, we're able to kind of come up with a solution together. So I'd say that's a good example of me being one of a team that we're coming to a solution.Um, I think I'd like to be more interested in academia and even research. Uh, I enjoy what I do, but I've seen some awesome things that you can do. If you aren't even further. I don't plan on pursuing a career in peer research, which is why I think it's kind of interesting. Why admire myself more if I was more interested in that kind of field? But.Uh, I think I'm qualified, and I think I'll bring a lot to the company. I fit in well with the environment here, and, uh, it's something that I've always wanted to do.All right.
P3: And you? I'm well.Yeah, sorry I think I was late. I totally, like, messed up. I thought we were at the media lab, but, uh, it's okay.Um, so, uh, I would say that the job I'm interviewing for, let's say Palantir. Um, yeah, so I'm Chase. Um, and I guess, I don't know, I really enjoy computers and outdoors. That's generally what I give people. Um, so in both of these, um, computers mainly, uh, at, ah, mit, I think some of my favorite classes have actually been graphics and um, computational photography as well. So it's actually been really interesting to me getting into harder problems, um, like really deep programming, like C, I'm actually getting more interested in. Whereas before, when I came to mit, I had no idea about this stuff and I just did a lot of web development. M. Otherwise, I really enjoy working on random projects, going to hackathons a lot and hanging out with people. M. Yeah, just building cool things. Otherwise, uh, my main thing I do outdoors, uh, is ultimate Frisbee, which I really enjoy.Uh, actually that would probably be. I would actually put this on Frisbee. Um, so I started the Frisbee club in my high school, um, my junior year. And, um, basically it was just a bunch of my friends. We used to play around a lot and we said, hey, why don't we actually make this a team? It was about like 15 or 20 of us. Um, so I became captain. And what that entailed was getting people to practices every day or maybe three times a week, depending on, like, how people's schedules were. But, uh, it was definitely tricky because, I mean, we had to get, you know, at least 15 people out on the field to be able to actually play a game, because you need seven on each side. Um, so, uh, getting all this organized, like every day was, um, definitely, like pretty hard to do. And I had to get people passionate enough to be wanting to play every time that we needed to play. Um, and by the end we, uh, went to a tournament in Texas, which is where I'm from. Um, and we got, uh, fifth my junior year and third my senior year, which is great without a coach or anything. Um, just a lot of playing around with. But yeah.Um, okay, so let's go with robotics. That was one of the classes I was in last, uh, semester. So, um, basically, uh, the first half of the class was just learning in general about robots and figuring out, um, just all the electronics first of all, and then actually the computer science behind it, doing vision and such. Um, so finally at the very end of the, um, uh, class, we had to make our own robots. And so what I did there, um, basically we had a few meetings to be able to figure out exactly what type of robot we were going to be building and stuff. M and I guess, um, what I wanted to do was basically, um, go ahead with everything we'd already done, uh, and just push forward with that and just finish off basically. And then what my team members wanted to do was actually redo everything and start from the very bottom. So what we ended up doing, I actually took their side. Um, and it worked out very well. Um, we had, uh, quite a few tricky problems involved. Um, um, one really cool thing that we worked on was figuring out exactly, um, how the robot can see the world. And what we had with this. We had, uh, a tile floor that we kind of cheated with. We had a tile floor and then walls everywhere. Um, so what we were able to do is say, let's just color the tile floor and wherever the coloring stops, so let's look at all the white in the picture. And whenever we don't see any white, that's actually the bottom of the wall. Um, so then we basically, uh, took all these points that existed that represented roughly the bottom of the wall and then basically ran that through an algorithm that created it turned, uh, it into a line. Um, so, yeah, that was kind of what it was and it worked really well. Um, in the end we actually had this vision turned on, which was really tricky. And I think the first time they actually had, um, something like this instead of just looking for balls and doing path planning, actually relocalization in the world.Okay. Um, um, I would go with. Yeah, I should have got a better answer for this question. I guess. I don't know if I can plan to overcome it. Um, I don't know. I would actually say, um, I wish I was a lot better in working in teams. Um, so I actually really enjoy working in teams in general. And that's um, actually been one of my biggest focuses at mit because I, I just know everyone's really great at everything. Um, but being able to, um, basically inspire people to do stuff that I think is a good idea. Um, I have found that I'M not the best at basically. Um. Uh, I just like, just various aspects of just everything. Like working in this social club where we just throw events in general, um, for students. And I've got various ideas that I need to get across to people. But sometimes people don't agree with me and either have to be persuasive or something or come up with better ideas. Um, so I guess my plan to overcome this, ah, so far has basically just been a lot of practice. Um, just doing it more. Uh, basically again, I've been doing a lot of, um, teamwork in general. I do really enjoy it. So I think it just comes with practice and being very conscious about how other people do stuff very well and inspire me. Um, so hopefully I can inspire others.Um, Uh, I guess because, um, I would probably say the one where it comes down to passion. Whatever I'm doing, I make sure, um, to do it with everything that I have. And I'm basically always thinking about the problems that I'm working on. Um, I generally have a pretty small scope of problems as well that I always try and narrow down. I can't take so many problems at the same time and try and solve all of them. If I'm reading a book, I'm only reading one or two books. Um, but with this, um, I don't know, I found it so far to be really helpful. I think my passion generally overflows to other people. Um, I think I'm frequently jumping around, um, when I'm doing stuff and explaining stuff and listening to people. Um, so I think I bring kind of, uh, some liveliness to places. And also where this passion goes, I'm always looking at new stuff, learning new stuff and teaching people about it. Um, and just enjoy making stuff.
P4: Pretty well.Uh, so I'm a junior, uh, studying aeronautics and astronautics at MIT M. So right now I'm currently in the middle of my junior year. I'm looking for a summer internship with a company. And uh, tell me about a time.Okay. Um, so for example last year, um, when we were working on a class project where we were uh, trying to design uh, a jet engine for ge, um, I had to work with a uh, group of four people um, in trying to optimize certain parameters for this engine that we would have to present in somebody ah, to present to GE engineers. Um, during that time one of my team members actually got really sick and he actually had to go to medical for a couple days and he wasn't really able to do much and another person wasn't showing up very much. So during that time I sort of basically had to facilitate the people who weren't sick and basically help them communicate, talk to each other and set up meetings. I uh, sort of took the helm on uh, towards the end on a lot of that and basically got everybody together to complete this project.Um, so over the summer I was working uh, at Auburn University. Um, I was doing m. Uav, uh collision avoidance algorithms. So like uh, programming things to allow a ah, whole bunch of UAVs flying in the same airspace, uh to basically get to their objectives without crashing into each other. Um, I was working with a partner, but in a larger context of um, a dozen students. Um, as it turns out the challenge in this case was that although it was sort of like programming AI sort of aeronautics, um, project, uh, my partner came from a mechanical engineering background and didn't really have any programming experience nor had, nor experience with um, with sort of UAV design. Um, so that became a bit of an issue. Um, but I um, think basically what ended up happening was I worked with um, a grad student there and like a couple other people to basically bring her up to speed, basically sort of teach her programming from the ground up, up to level where she might be able to help with programming like uh, an AI for a uav. And um, in that case I drew upon a lot of resources that are available there. Um, you know, the grad students who are helping us, the professor who's in charge of the uh, the project as well as other students in the program.Um, so I think one of my weaknesses is that, um, I have a tendency to show up, uh, to things kind of late. Um, this is actually probably, uh, after I'm used to. After I'm used to going to a certain place, um, because I have a tendency to think that especially in the mornings, because I have a tendency to think, oh, I can get to a certain place, uh, by biking at a certain speed. So I think what, uh, I tend to do, uh, what I'm trying to do nowadays to try to overcome that is basically get to somewhere beforehand and then basically, uh, do work there as opposed to try to do work, um, away from a place where I need to be and sort of try to make it there in the nick of time is something I've been trying to implement over the past couple weeks now.Um, I think you should hire me because, um, basically I've demonstrated over the past couple years a um, fair amount of research experience, a fair amount of, um, experience in and out of the classroom in both, um, sort of an academic setting and in a research and development setting. Ah, Such that I think I would be an asset to your company. Um, I think that my past experience with both software, uh, and hardware side of aeronautics and astronautics makes it so that, uh, I have a good balance that would be useful to you.Um, my, uh, name is Hosea. I'm an MIT student. I'm currently a junior in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics. M and so I'm mainly focusing on information systems behind M aeronautical and astronautical flight systems. My coursework basically has included a fair amount of the basics of aeronautics and astronautics that is covered at mit. Uh, in addition to that I've covered a lot of, um, programming work, um, both in and out of school. Um, so that has included uh, basically building a UAV from scratch as well as, um, working on UAV programming for the Department of Defense. Um, which has been done for collision avoidance for a lot of UAVs flying in the air.So yeah, I do think I'm a leader. So for example, right now I'm actually holding several different leadership positions. Uh, first of all, I am the residential director for a group called Medlinx in my dorm. Uh, what we do is we provide students health care support. Basically. Uh, we are authorized to give out over the counter medicines to other students in our dorm and as well as elsewhere. We're uh, certified in first aid in some basic images, emergency care, and we're also there for basically student health counseling. Um, so in my position as residential director, um, I basically talk to the dorm executive board as well as the Medlinx executive board. And uh, we basically work together. I work as a liaison between the groups, um, and I basically help plan events. Um, I work with them to resolve whatever issues that are coming up. I hold monthly meetings for them, um, basically to help support basically the people who support our dorm. Um, in addition to that I kind of have like a quirky side leadership position which is um, as president of the MIT Tapioca Club. We make and distribute large quantities of tap yoga. So every once in a while, um, I will be organizing a whole bunch of students getting together, maybe like a night or two of crazy cooking. Um.Um, sure. So, um, yes, I do consider myself a team player. I've had to work in a whole bunch of different teams. Um, for example, one time there was a bit of a conflict. Um, was basically when last uh, year when I was working on ah, one of my assignments for an engineering class, we had a problem in which uh, basically one of the students wouldn't show up. One of the other students, well, actually, let me get this straight. Uh, one of the students had trouble showing up for basically the team meetings and uh, another one of them kind of. Of got annoyed at that. Um, and so the way I helped um, sort of resolve this conflict and basically bring everybody together to try to work out the project was I basically took it upon myself to help the person to figure out why the person who wasn't showing up wasn't showing up. Um, and I basically helped him work through some of the stuff that m. He had issues with, mainly because he wasn't showing up, mainly because. Because he felt he wasn't able to contribute enough, didn't know enough about the programs we were working with. So I basically sat through and talked him through it. Um, helped him basically develop uh, some of the skills necessary to work with it. So in that way he basically showed up a lot more. He was much more productive and useful to the team. And that also, um, basically helped resolve the conflict that we had in which, you know, we avoided losing a team member basically, and we avoided another problem of um, basically an annoyed team member having to deal with a person who he felt wasn't really doing his job.Um, so this is actually something that I'm actively working on. Um, I feel that I should be more compassionate. This is actually something that, um. So during my Med Links training, something that actually appeared. Um, basically what we were doing, we were doing a bit of an exercise M in which we were presented with a couple of different cases to basically, um, illustrate how it might be for a person to go through some very, very difficult, uh, I guess difficult times or difficult trials. Um, and so we were given scenarios to imagine, sort of like, um, maybe the loss of a loved one or loss of a secure place to be, uh, loss of some sort of, you know, a whole bunch of losing things. And um, I guess I wasn't as moved as other students were, primarily because I've been through all of the examples that they gave. Uh, so I don't know. I guess on one hand that's a good thing and on the other hand that's a bad thing. But, um, what that pointed out to me was that like, I wasn't perhaps able to empathize as well as the others were, despite. I don't know, either despite or specifically because I've been through that. And um, part of the reason that I joined Med Links and am now currently actually, uh, trying to join the MIT ems, not because I want to pursue medicine as A career. But one, because I want to develop those skills and two, because I want to sort of develop and exercise more compassion.Um, so I think I should get the job basically because of one, uh, my past experiences which have prepared me fairly well for uh, the kind of employee that you're looking for. A person with, um, good strong aerospace and science background as well as strong coding skills that are necessary for basically the kind of projects that I know you're working on. Additionally, I feel that I'm a very reliable person. Um, I've demonstrated that through my leadership positions, through the things that I have, ah, um, sort of taking the initiative to engage in, such as the various programs I mentioned and the things I'm trying to do right now. Um, so I feel like because of that I would be a valuable asset to your team.Bubble tea.Here's what it sounds like. So we try to, we try to make it more than bubble tea. Okay. Um, currently we have primarily me, bubble tea, Tokyo Kuntaro. Yeah, so it's like uh, I think we've done like two or three events and basically every time it's like, okay, I'm going to chinatown, get like 20, 30 pounds of tapioca, bring it back and then like we'll spend like basically a night or two cooking, making large quantities of tea.I only did it one time though. I think what we're trying to do right now is we're trying to actually get enough funds to get uh, a cup sealing machine. That way the club will basically be self sustainable because like right now it's MIT funded, but it's so new that they won't give it consistent funding yet. We have to apply for new grants. That makes sense. So we're like, well, you know, we're paying MIT all this money to be here. Why not make them give us money for food?
P5: So I'm, um, a junior majoring in computer science at mit. I'm very interested in product design and how not just how products are designed, but also how the business side of it has affected users and how you can use technology to affect the masses. I like to pursue opportunities in the product line.A time when I demonstrated leadership was um, I was the program's chair of the uh, MIT Minority Business association and it was my responsibility to plan our annual New York City trip. And um, some of the challenges were bringing in sponsors and delegating tasks to all the members and managing people essentially. And by um, delegating tasks according to interests and making sure that understanding what was going on in people's lives and helping them understand why they weren't able to complete a task on time, we were able to have a successful training.The time when I was working on a team was in my Elements of Software construction class and we were facing not people problems but a technical problem. And with the ah project we were trying to implement and the way we solved it was just by brainstorming and making sure that we didn't deny anyone's ideas off the bat. We just tried to be as creative as we could be and then presented some of our solutions to a UH ta and through that we were able to solve a technical problem.One of my weaknesses is actually I learned from my internship this past summer is that usually when I'm working on a project or I have an idea, I wait until the idea is fully fleshed out or um, partially implemented before I share with others and give their opinion. But I find it's a better and more agile approach to share ideas as soon as possible and iterate as quickly as possible. So fail fast essentially. And what I would do to upcoming is in the future to seek opinion early on when I have an idea of working on a project.Water, sun, like shiny. Because I'm very. I have a strong willingness to learn and I go beyond that and try to really get intuition for why things are the way they are or why they work. I break it down to small steps and figure out how I can build it back up to have similar success.My background? I'm a junior at MIT studying computer science. Um, but I've also done research in the computer science field. Um, I interned, I researched with a group at MIT and what we did was we made an interactive game to uh, teach. And I've also had some uh, internship, uh, at Google.Tell me why I think I'm a leader. I do believe I have leadership qualities and I can support this because I've been in leadership positions in organizations here on campus and when I've had responsibilities I've carried them out uh, very well and I've been able to overcome challenges such as um, one um, of the groups on the executive board of expedited access to standard education. Um, one of uh, our tasks this semester was to come up with an idea for a presentation and to carry it out at a cultural show from another group. And I took ownership of that and it came out pretty well and we were able to raise more money than we have in the past.I um, would definitely consider myself a team player. And an example would be from uh, my participation in MIT Minority Business Association. And for one of the tasks we were trying to accomplish I was in charge and I delegated some tasks to other members. And while the tasks were not getting completed by the deadline that I set. So as a leader, as being responsible for that task, I tried to figure out what was going on in the other students lives because I put it in context and uh, understand why they're missing the deadlines for them to have a lot of tests or homework that week. And to through that understanding I was able to um, help motivate them to complete the task and resolve that conflict.If I was given an option to change one thing about myself, I guess what I would change is to, I guess just in general have a lot more knowledge in my field than a person at my level would at this current level. And that's uh, that's something that would be nice. I feel like uh, I would be able to be much further along in my career than that.Well, I think I should get the job because, um, I have the skills necessary to complete the task that will be assigned. I'm very motivated. I'm, um, always willing to learn, and I'm very passionate about learning. And I think I'll be able to learn a lot, uh, through the position, as well as contribute, uh, to the position and be able to influence the people that I work directly with or that are shareholders in my project.
P6: I'm doing good. How are you?Well, um, my name is Jeff. I um, was born in Japan. I lived there for seven years before I moved to uh, the US first to Michigan for two years and then to Maryland. And it was when I was in high school or sorry middle school that I was exposed to a lot of um, different math, science, advanced science courses. Um, it's where I was exposed to a lot of um, math competitions and computer science competitions. And it was around my uh, junior year in high school. Sorry, did you have something? Okay. It was around my junior year in high school where because of peer and parental pressures um, I decided to be pre med. I decided to put, pursue a career in medicine. Um, so it was during high school I decided taking the biology classes, genetics, cell physiology. Um, and when I got here to MIT, I decided to major in course 20. And after about um, four lab positions, two in academia and two in industry, I realized um, course 20, the medicine track wasn't for me. Um, mainly because it wasn't quantitative enough or competitive enough or fast paced enough for me. Um, but during my last internship at um, a biotech industry, I had the privilege of talking with several uh, site directors. Um, it was because through that meeting that I realized that I might be more into finance and it might be more suitable for me. And after which I started talking to some colleagues, some finance majors and that's why I'm here.Um, I would say it was during high school. There was this one uh, group sophomore year. We had to do this mission, this project called Mission Possible where we had to design a rover that would traverse a platform and record some data. The problem with the group was there wasn't supposed to be a leader but nobody really uh, took any responsibility in tuning what they had to do. And that was partly due to the fact that nobody was assigned. These individual team members were not assigned anything. Uh, so I decided to take the initiative a couple days before. Before it was due was actually a three week project to uh, become the leader, the unofficial but self uh, claimed leader. Um, and as a leader I assigned tasks to people politely. I asked could you do this? Because this was a very multi perspective project, um, that required programming, construction and uh, engineering. And yeah, I decided to be the leader. I assigned tasks and I would say we were pretty successful by the time it was due.Okay, well, uh, I would like to talk about my past and my very most recent summer internship at a biotech company. And the problem, I think it was an individual problem, although I worked in the. Was that, um, because I was working with cells and cells, um, the way cells work, um, is that you culture them on Monday, let's say day one, and you let them grow till day four or five or six, and then you collect data. And the problem is you can't collect data from day one and five. You have to collect it on day six. And if anything happens, uh, on day three or day four, sometime between day one and day five, uh, the data will make no sense and you would have to restart the experiment. And I was on a tight schedule and this was a 10 week project on the first two weeks. I contaminated the cells both weeks, um, and so my data had to be redone, my experiment had to be redone. And the problem was that this was a test week project and now I have eight weeks to do. Well, one thing I learned in that internship is to not panic when situations like such arise. And uh, what I did was I went to people for help and I definitely spent more hours. I talked to the HR department, I talked to my managers to increase my hours weekly hours from 40 to 60. So it's. Instead, I worked Saturdays and Sundays. In fact, there was this one point where I worked 23 days in a row, um, and uh, successfully, I think finished. In fact, uh, after my data analysis and data compiling, I, uh, presented my data to the site director who told me that I had the most impressive presentation out of all of the 21 interns there. So, yeah, it was during challenges, uh, like that. It was because of challenges like that I've learned to not panic in a stressful situation and to definitely branch out for help.I, uh, think one of my weaknesses is I don't have a formal education in finance. I decided to be course 20. I decided to pursue pre med. And it was a very, I agree that it was a very sudden Transition to Math Course 18. Um, but I think I make up for that at least partly by going to workshops, going to reading, uh, books, and definitely networking with colleagues. So in terms of the financial models, uh, the mental math skills and the programming skills that I need to know, I believe I have a very strong grasp of those.Well, I think, um, compared to the rest of the competition nobody shows more initiative than I do and in fact I don't think anybody has the technical skills or the willingness to work such long hours. Um I think one of my strengths is that I don't have any boss expectations because I had to do such a size sudden transition in career I have to do a lot of research to convince myself that I won't have to do this transition again Like I said I've networked I've talked to people I've read books I've done tons and tons of research I've emailed out to site directors I even emailed out to first year analysts and I know exactly what my job is I know that the long hours are tough and anybody who says that they like the long hours will be lying to you and I know the exact skill sets that are required and I believe I have those skill sets.You thank you for this opportunity.Um, so I was born in Japan, where I lived for seven years. After that I moved to the US When I was around seven, eight years old. Uh, first to Michigan for a couple years, about two or three, and then to Maryland. Um, and it was in Maryland that I started middle school. It was during middle school and high school that I, I was exposed to above average and advanced courses in science, math, uh, and programming. I was competing with the, I think best of the state and probably best of the nation, taking math competitions, just doing a lot of science competitions in general. Junior year in high school, because of peer and parental pressures, I decided to go into pre med and I decided to take M, consequently decided to take some bio classes, a lot of cell physiology, genetics, psychology. And when I got here to MIT, um, well, logically I decided to major in course 20 bioengineering. Um, and just to follow that track, I decided to take a couple. I decided to do a couple internships in labs, four labs actually, two in academia, um, here at MIT actually. And I realized that the positions weren't fast paced enough or competitive enough, um, or quantitative enough for that matter. And so I decided to go into industry, hoping that would satisfy my requirements, I guess. Um, and again, it was fun. I learned a lot. But it was just, um, it didn't have the skill set requirements that, that I wanted. But it was at my last internship at Amgen, I had the opportunity to talk with, uh, several site directors, um, managers, people on the business side. And I realized, you know, that could be something that I want to do that could be more appropriate for me, for my career. Afterwards, I talked to a lot of my, uh, finance colleagues, started taking finance classes, classes went through workshops, started networking and I realized, you know, this is most likely what I want to do. Talked to several, uh, people who wanted to go into trading and they gave me some interview questions and I said, you know what? That's exactly the kind of questions that I want to tackle on a daily basis. And that's why I'm here.Do I think I'm a leader? I believe so. And this is, uh, I say so because of several reasons. Uh, one is from, uh, just from personal experience. In the past I, uh, worked through teams. I led teams. A few, uh, in high school and a few in college. And I think I work well with others. But not only that, uh, people trust me. Uh, I am able to divide up a huge project, break it down into small sub Projects and uh, give these, assign these tasks to different people without any complaints. Without too much complaint. I think I have some leadership skills as you can see from my resume. If you have my resume, yeah.I do consider myself a team player and I like to give a good example. In my sophomore year of high school I worked with this project called uh, Mission Impossible or Mission Impossible, sorry. And the goal of the project was to design a rover from scratch that would traverse a platform and record data, send it over to the computer. And the computer would create a 3D graph, 3D, uh, replica of the terrain. And we would grade it on how precise and accurate, uh, how similar the 3D terrain was to the actual terrain. And there were many parts to the project. One was the construction of the actual rover. The other was uh, the programming, writing the source code. Third one was making the terrain. We had to make the terrain. The fourth one was integrating everything together. There were five group members. There were only four tasks. I was picked to be the uh, I guess the group. So I assigned the tasks and I made sure everything integrated correctly. And it's not a small task but uh, it definitely gave me some experience. I think one of the problems was that because this was a four week long project. Well, uh, this was a four week long project but we didn't get much done until the third or fourth week because things just didn't integrate correctly. There weren't communications, there weren't assigned tasks, there just wasn't teamwork. There just wasn't a synergism that was required for us in order for us to finish this project. And during the third week I was appointed the captain. The captain. I gave tasks, I made sure every part was compatible. I made sure that ah, everybody knew what everyone else was doing. And in the end we completed the project successfully.Well, as you can see from my resume, my biggest weakness I think is my lack of formal training in finance. Um, I am not uh, a course 15 finance or management major or uh, course 14 economics major. I don't have any work experience. I don't have any form of work experience. I haven't worked at a big bank or investment company or proprietary trading firm. But uh, I can tell you that I have taken more initiative and being more proactive the last year in terms of looking for ways to combat to overcome my weakness. I've gone to network sessions. Uh, I've actually quit my sports team so I could go to these network sessions, info sessions, workshops. Because uh, unfortunately the swim team practice was always between five and seven and that was also the period in which info sessions were held. I did my research, I gone online, I went to your company website. I knew exactly where you guys are, what you guys are looking for. I know exactly what my role will be. I don't have any false expectations about my job. And after knowing everything, I am still very, very, very interested in the position.Well, I think my answer to the past question about, uh, how I overcame my weakness, um, uh, one of my strengths is my quantitative, competitive and fast paced abilities and the fact that I don't have any false expectations that I know exactly what I want to do or exactly what you want from me. Those are very good reasons that they apply to this. And I would also like to compare myself with the rest of the competition and tell you that I have more. I don't think there's anybody else with the same kind of technical strength, technical expertise that I have even, uh, among students here at mit.
P7: Hi, I'm Jacob. Nice to meet you.Good, how are you?Okay. I'm a junior at MIT studying math and computer science, and I'm working for a summer internship at your company this summer.Okay, so I'm actually currently president of two student groups on campus. The Educational Studies Program, which runs, uh, large scale educational programs for the middle and high school students, where they take classes taught by MIT students, and the MIT Mystery Hunt, which is a one weekend event in January where thousands of MIT students and other community members come to campus to participate in a large multi day sort of puzzle competition. Um, so I'd be happy to go into specifics about either of those, but I, uh, have plenty of stories to tell.Okay, so one thing that comes to mind is a couple months ago I was, uh, in a robotics competition at MIT called Mass Lab. So it's an autonomous robotics competition where you, uh, have to design, build, program the robot from scratch. And I was in charge of programming the robot for the team. Um, and we ran into several problems where the vision libraries we were trying to use, uh, in order to sort of track the balls and the field elements just weren't working for us. Um, and we spent probably the first half of the month trying to get these to work for the team. And, um, eventually just decided that it would be easier for us to start from scratch and, uh, write everything ourselves. So sort of by throwing out the assumption that we should work with the code we were given, and starting from those principles, we were able to actually, um, get a division to be at a level above most of the other teams because we could sort of custom write the code to be specific to the task at hand, rather than trying to adapt general libraries.Okay. I guess one of the weaknesses I found is that I tend not to know when to ask for help. So, for instance, at my internship last summer, this is something that my mentor pointed out to me several times. Well, I would sort of, if I got stuck on a problem, would, you know, try to see what I could do about it, um, google around for the solution, see if other people had encountered the same problem, and then only after a couple days of trying to work around it, then talk to someone. Whereas if I Just asked someone for help the first day they could say, oh, I ran into this problem last month. This is how you fix it. And avoid me sort of this hassle of trying to Google it on my own. So, um, I definitely started to become more aware of this over the course of the summer and made a conscious effort to, when I was having a problem, you know, look at my watch and figure out how much time I was wasting trying to solve it. And if it got to be more than, like, half an hour on my own, I would just poke someone next to me and ask them. And I think just sort of continuing that and trying to make sure that I'm keeping up the habit of ensuring that I'm m not sort of getting stuck on my own. Uh, should help.Okay, that's an interesting question. Um, I think. I think so. A lot of the candidates you've seen probably have come in with similar abilities. You know, students at schools like mit, very near the top of their class. So I wouldn't say there's much that differentiates me there, But I would say that, um, I think I would get along well with your company. People who have worked with me before have told me that I'm just sort of like a fun person to be on a team with. Um, so if you sort of look out to other aspects beyond just, you know, the numbers or GPA or what's on my resume and, you know, try to maybe, you know, if you want me to hang around, hang out at the office for a couple days and, you know, work with you guys, and we can see how that goes. I'm confident that you think you would conclude that I would be a good fit here.Any other questions?Okay. I'm a junior at mit, majoring in electrical engineering, computer science as well as mathematics, and I have a couple of previous internships under my belt, as you can see on my resume. So I feel like I come prepared with a lot of experience, both from school and outside.Uh, yes, I would say that I am a leader. Um, in particular, I've been involved in many student groups on campus, such as Educational Studies Program, Mystery Hunt, and several other groups that I've had leadership positions in. But even when I don't have a formal leadership role, as I do in those groups, I feel like I still tend to take charge of situations, whether it's a group project for the class where we're supposed to be working collaboratively, but I'll be sending emails to make sure we're moving forward and making progress, or something a bit more structured. We're actually supposed to have a leader. Like I mentioned, student group.Okay. So, yes, I would call myself a team player. To go back to, one of the examples I was just talking about with the, uh, educational Studies program was a fairly large student group. We have a couple hundred different MIT students teach with us, but a cool team of about 30 to 40 admins who come to meetings every week and help out. And unfortunately, being college students, there's a lot of personal conflict, um, between members. And I have had to step in several times with sort of individual people. First notice that there's a problem, um, talk to the people in question individually to figure out more about what's going on and then intervene and sort of set aside rules and sort of help them interact well professionally and keep their problems outside of the group. I don't really want to get into details because some of these can be personal, but I have had to do this.That's a difficult question. I'd probably say my age. I feel like there are a lot of experiences I've missed out on. Sort of looking back at high school, say, now that I'm in college, or looking back at a first internship once I've done a second, there are a lot of ways I think I could have learned more and matured more as a person had I, uh, gone into situations with a different mindset. So, um, I guess what I'm trying to say is if I, knowing what I know now, will be able to go, uh, redo some of the things of the past years, which isn't physically possible. A thought.Okay, well, as I mentioned before, I have a lot of experience. Leadership. I'm a team player. But, uh, beyond that, I think I'm just very well qualified and passionate about your company and would be excited to join the team and work with you guys to further your goals.
P8: I'm doing great. How are you?So I'm an undergraduate, um, in my third year here at MIT M and I'm studying computer science. Um, I am really interested in uh, applying for a software job. I want to gain more experience in web development and software development and also get some exposure into data science and machine learning. You'll see how that plays out uh, in the industry setting. Since I've done some research.Um, leadership. So currently I'm on uh, the South Asian American Students Exec Board. So that's basically like the Indian Cultural Club for undergrads. And uh, I'm secretary and community service chair. So I'm currently organizing um, reaching out to groups in the Boston area. Um, and um, groups that work overseas in India, um, for charity and community service opportunities. I can connect um, to undergrads here. Um, and I'm also involved in the other activities that SAs the group is involved in setting up and planning uh, study breaks. Our recent uh, garba, which is an Indian dance festival. Uh, and also I'm in Phi Kappa Theta fraternity and uh, I've held leadership. Leadership positions there in my freshman year in our pledge class when I was the community service chair for that as well and led my class of uh, 15 in M going uh, out into the community. We went down into different places in Boston, helped clean up streets, et cetera.Uh, so with this community service, um, that my pledge class did from a fraternity, um, one glaring problem was getting everybody to respond, communicate well and show up. Uh, class 15 isn't too big, but when we're all MIT students we're all just getting settled. It's kind of hard to keep everybody on task. Um, so what I did to solve this problem was ah, once I set up, one thing I did was set up a group text, um, that I would uh, that basically keep us all in touch and um, would facilitate making sure that everybody was staying involved. It would be easier to keep track also of who was actually responding. Um, because people check text better than emails and that's what we didn't use in previous. Um. I also tried to unsuccessfully but um, proposed um, like a point system basically ah, to reward those who would show up and penalize those who didn't. So we have chores basically in our house to keep clean Houseworks and crews and um, basically if you accumulated a certain number of um, points or points for bad, uh, you would have to do extra cruise or houseworks depending on when you didn't show up for an event during that flex process.I think probably my biggest weakness is um, staying focused on tasks. Ah, uh, when I am working on a task and I am focused I am able to work really efficiently and I come up with good ideas, um, but I frequently get distracted. However, I've been um, well on my way to overcoming this through friends of working, studying with friends who like trained me to stay more on task, um, done things like finding better places to work and study with respect to schoolwork. And also uh, sleep schedules are frequently a major problem for undergrads in terms of how that affects your study habits. And so I've been working on that to help stay fresher and more focused when I do my work.I think you should hire you because I have a lot of ideas. I'm really good at coming up with ideas to bring the table, especially in terms of um, software development in projects for school and in one or two of my own independent projects I've been working on by myself and with friends. I've um, been good at uh, optimization, um, of software and coming up with good ideas um, on the user end. So um, I'm able to look at a project from different standpoints and think about what all parties would want, what would be easiest for the development team as well as the end users.Thank you.So I am a junior at mit. Uh, I'm in computer science and I've taken several classes in algorithms and in uh, probability statistics. And I'm also doing uh, studying on my own machine learning. And I plan to take that next semester before the summer starts, um, to develop data analysis and machine learning skills, especially in the field of pattern recognition, which I'm very interested in. And um, I hope that that will give me some training for an internship that I do in that field which will give me more practice in the real world.I think I am a leader. Uh, I led several projects uh, in the past in my positions as a community service chair, um, one in my fraternities, uh, pledge class and another in my, uh, in a student group that I'm a part of the South Asian American student tour and successfully completed um, service projects in the community as well as organizing um, events for raising money for charity. Uh, I also, in terms of group projects for school, I frequently um, I'm good at assigning tasks, keeping people on task as well as gathering input from everybody, um, which I think are the essential qualities of good leader.I do consider myself a team player. Uh, going back to the example of my pledge class for my journey, uh, we had several tasks, one of which would be to visit every other, every student in the pledge class's dorm room during the freshman year. And with a flex class of 13 people, it's not an impossible task. But there were logistical problems. One is communication, trying to get everybody to participate. Another is figuring out the best way to go about things, people wanting to leave in the middle, etc. So I did my part obviously as a team member to lead people to my room and to show up myself. But a good team player should also make sure that other people are doing their job, uh, not necessarily in a leader or managerial role, but ah, with the same general properties of a leader that all the team members should be basically checking one another. And so I did my part in that to uh, basically when there were several members missing, I would say hey, you call this person, I'll call this person, split up tasks, etc. Um, and also help in planning with uh, the best route to go by, etc.If I Had to change one thing about myself.Naturally. There are a lot of things I wish I could change about myself. Uh, I wish I could be better at basketball, but I think if I had to pick one quality, it would probably be my ability to stay focused on a task. Um, although I'm pretty efficient at getting things done and I bring great ideas, sometimes I get distracted or I like to multitask. So I might be staying on task with work in general, but I'll like to have three different homework sentences open at once. Spend five minutes on this, on this, on this, and a lot of times that will work really well for me. But sometimes if I'm working collaboratively, that may not work the best for other people. So making myself more adaptive to other people's studying styles, working styles, etc. Uh, that would probably help me a lot.I think I should get this job because, uh, for two main reasons. One, I would provide a lot to the company because I am very efficient at working and I can think creatively for new ideas, say, for new ways to analyze certain data or to, ah, optimize the running of a certain software. On the other hand, the other reason I think I should get this job is because I would be a valuable member of, a valuable member of the workplace in this field. I think by getting more experience, um, with this startup, I think, uh, it would really help me in developing necessary skills that would help me in the future.
P10: Great. How about you?Kind of a little off guard by this resurgence of the hurricane, but I understand.Yeah. Halfway here and just turned on a switch. Lightning and winds and everything, so.Okay. Um. I'm a junior here at mit, uh, studying aerospace engineering. Um, my interests are generally in fluid mechanics, control, um, design. Um, mostly aircraft, but design problems in general. M. Um, I like to play music, listen to music. I run, um, do some other team sports. I like to play hockey. Um.Okay. So, uh, one of the projects that I've worked on since coming to mit, um, was during my freshman year. I worked in an artificial intelligence group in csail, which is a computer science lab here at mit. And um, I was working on a project with another student, with actually another freshman. Uh, basically we were tasked with sort of bringing this project, starting this project, bringing it up to a level where it could be presented at conference, um, together. And we were kind of left to work out the cooperation on our own. And um, there was, as the conference got closer, um, about halfway through the year, freshman year, uh, there were a bunch of issues that we had with um. Basically meeting the expectations that had been set before us in terms of what we were going to present, um, and finishing in a timely basis. Uh, and it came down to really whether we were going to be able to. And there were other, basically parts, other people's work in the same group whose work depended on what we were doing, um, and us finishing in time. So really, um, really we had to make a decision whether we were just going to basically get done what we could, but to the quality standard. That was the standard quality that was expected of us. Or to um, try to finish everything and have other people's work potentially suffer because, uh, our analysis hadn't really been up to snuff. Um, and so, um, we kind of had a little bit of disagreement about this. But, uh, what ended up happening was I, um, went and talked to the professor and sort of decided to um, make them aware what was happening because they weren't really aware that we had fallen behind this. Um, and sort of got the other student on board who disagreed with me to do this, um, and to let everyone else know what was going on. And uh, we ended up presenting a lot less than originally expected. But, um, I think it was very much for the better.Okay, um, so another thing that I m. Spend a lot of my time doing is an organization called Design Build Fly here. Um, it's a design competition, um, run by the iaa which is an aerospace professional organization. And um, you can enter a team from any university or group basically anywhere in the world. It's mostly US Universities though. And um, these university teams basically build a plane, uh, design it, build it, fly it, as the competition name suggests. And you compete them all at the end of the year, compete against the other universities at the end of the year at one competition. Basically. Um, last year we had, um, design challenges. Was pretty unique. Um, and so I'll take that as our challenge. Um, uh, so we basically had a year to solve this. Um, and I was head of one of the subgroups last year, the actual design subgroup. And um, I mean, we approached in a methodical way. Just like I think that the best way to solve most problems, um, got input from every team member. Um, and um, basically looked at our possibilities. Um, and um, we ran the numbers. Ultimately, I think that's the best way to solve most problems. We ended up with, um, a design that got the best overall score, um, on the basis of just basically incorporating every team member's input.Okay. Um. So one of my. I think definitely since coming here, I've noticed that one of my biggest weaknesses is, uh, written communication. Um, I really was not intimidated by the thought of it in high school. But I, uh. Since coming here, I've definitely found that, um, perhaps at the expense of technical skills, um, my written communication skills have atrophied. Maybe is the right word. Um, and, um. So I definitely. I think I'm pretty aware of this. Um, and, um, I definitely like to improve it. Um, and so, um, what I do is just try to force myself whenever I'm writing papers or technical reports, whether it be for research or for classes, just to go through the proper revision cycle to force myself to make, um, sure that I'm actually being, um. That I'm being succinct and clear in what I'm saying and have other people read and give me feedback.Okay. Um. I mean, I think I don't know what this position is, but imagine the.Um, so if I knew this position was I think that I want it because, um, this is really what I thrive off of. I, um, enjoy doing it, um, and I'd be excited to come to work every day to do it, um, which, um, you know, that's. That's like the biggest thing for me. I would be excited to come do it. And I know I would put my, you know, put my all into doing a job at it, uh, because I would be excited to come do it. And, um, I think that, um, I have a decent skill set to do this, and I'm pretty qualified to contribute in this area.Um, so, um, I'm a third year student at Master's Institute of Technology. Um, my major is aerospace engineering. And um, my background is primarily in fluid mechanics and control. Um, and so that's why I'm interviewing for this position. Um, and um, the applications I'm primarily interested in are. Are in rotorcraft. Ah. Uh, design and uh, analysis. And um, I'm really excited about what your company is doing.Um, yes. I think that, um. I don't think that a leader is the first adjective that I pull out to describe myself. Um, but I think that's something that I definitely. A role that I can definitely step into, um, when the need arises or when, um, I think that it's appropriate. Um, whether I seek that out I think really depends on the context. But, um, I definitely think of myself as someone who can act independently, uh, can make decisions independently, can act on those decisions, and um, can manage a group of people, um, to get sort of positive results.Okay. Um, so M. So when I worked for, um, the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence lab in freshman year, um, I, um, had an issue, um, with one of the students I was working with. Um, M. And we had a disagreement about how to handle some part of the project. Um, it was more of a mechanical issue in terms of what direction we would take. Um, and without getting into details, I think, um, getting back to the leadership issue, um, the way I handled this issue was, um, to sit down with the person to address the issue very directly, um, and have a frank conversation about what we both wanted, evaluate where we both were and talk through the options and make a decision right there, not let an issue linger. Um, I think that's generally my style.Um, that's not a question I've been asked a lot. I think, um, there are. There are a few things. Um. One thing that comes to mind immediately is my written communication skills. Um, I definitely know that that's something that I actively need to work on and um, would love the opportunity to improve on that.So from what I've seen so far in our interview and visiting, um, I'm really excited about this position. I think this is somewhere where I would fit in a lot. Um, I'm really excited about what I would be doing and the people I'd be working with. And, um, I would just love to sort of get my hands dirty. And, um, I think I'm pretty well equipped to do so and to contribute in doing so. So I'd love that opportunity. Well, thank you.
P11: Um, so I'm a junior at mit. Um, I'm m double majoring in management and biology. I'm very interested in the world of finance, um, business consulting, all of those sorts of things. So I've tried to take on different leadership roles that would prepare me for, uh, those sort of roles in the business world. Um, outside of school, I enjoy running cross country and track. I'm on the varsity team at mit and um, I'm also very involved m in Greek life at mit so I'm on the Panhellenic executive board as vice president of programming and also hold a leadership position in my sorority.Okay.Um, so I think this past year the or my biggest priority has been my position as vice president of programming for Panhell. Um, and just in that position, um, I hold a leadership role on the exec board. So we have weekly meetings. Um, I'm in charge of putting together our programming calendar for the entire year. So I have to interface with a lot of MIT faculty and, um, bring together the exec board as a whole and the different sororities, um, to attend the different events. Um, and I think by putting together all these events and working with different people on campus, I have to show leadership and have strong communication skills.Um, so I guess this past semester, actually I'm an associate advisor, um, for freshman. And I work with my freshman advisor as well as another associate advisor. And, um, the M3 of us were trying to come up with an event to host for the freshman. And I think we all had. Were very, um, set on our ideas. But we're having a difficult time communicating and coming up with an idea that could bring all three of our thoughts, um, and goals together. Um, so we had to work together to formulate some sort of event that would satisfy, uh, each of our different goals. And that was difficult at first because we had just met each other, so it was difficult to, uh, understand where the other people were coming from. But after communicating and deciding what our main goals for the event would be, we eventually figured out what we wanted to do.Um, yeah, so we had. We were trying to communicate via email at first, and I think that was inefficient, um, especially since we'd only met, um, in a group once before. Um, and so meeting in person and really trying to outline not just like what the event was going to be, but what our purpose in holding the event would be and what we were trying to communicate to the freshmen. I think by boiling it down to the main point of the event, we were able to figure out common ground and then build up from there.Um, so I think one of my weaknesses is, uh, public speaking, actually. And, um, I think by taking a variety of different classes, especially the Sloan class that I'm in now, which focuses on management communication, I've been able to kind of be thrown into positions where I have to give impromptu speeches, uh, and debate my point in different arguments. And I think that the practice is helping me a lot and it allows me to become more comfortable and more confident in what I'm saying, which I think helps, uh, me in the long run with public speaking in general. I think I've been able to build up my confidence and just know how to structure speeches and interviews and impromptu's better.Um, I think that my different leadership positions, as well as my academic experience, uh, would allow me to perform well on the job. I think that I've worked in or worked both individually on projects as well as in a team focused environment, which I think is key for, uh, most consulting and investment banking positions. I also feel that my MIT background and the quantitative analysis that I've done in classes, as well as my internship experiences would help me perform well on the job as well. Great.So, I'm a student here at mit. I'm a junior studying biology and management. Um, I'm very interested in finance. More specifically investment banking or consulting. Um, I've taken a bunch of different management finance classes as well as interned, um, in business management. Uh, I've also done laboratory research and I'm working in a small consulting firm part time as of now.Um, I think I'm a leader. I think I know how to command respect in certain situations. Um, I know how to work together on a team. I think that's very important. Um, especially in the positions that I'm looking at. I think working with a group of people and being able to encourage them, uh, to work towards a certain goal shows my leadership characteristics.Um, I definitely consider myself a team player. I think a lot of the different internships and experiences I've had have forced me to work on a team. Uh, specifically, um, in the class that I'm taking right now, uh, 15279, which is management communication, we're working on a team project together. And when deciding on our top for the team project, we had a lot of different disagreements, a lot of people had different ideas. Um, and I think I forced people to kind of look at what they were saying versus just exploring out ideas, um, like focusing on how their idea would actually turn out in a presentation. Um, and so trying to get people to compromise. Um, and in the end we ended up picking an idea. So.Okay, if you were given an option.Uh, well, I think I'd like to be taller, if that's my option. But other than that, uh, I think I wish I was more outgoing in certain situations. Um, I think sometimes I'm more reserved or in class a little hesitant to participate if I'm not sure I'm 100% correct. I think that's kind of an MIT mentality. Everyone likes to be right all the time. So I think, um, I had less reservation or if I had less reservations about like answering questions, that would be great.Um, I think with my academic experience as well as my internship experiences, I have enough past data analysis and quantitative work, as well as communication skills and leadership experience, um, that I have, like, a nice balance of skills going into the position. And I'm a fast learner and willing to, um, learn on the job, so I think the combination of all of that would be good.
P12: I'm good. How are you?Okay. So I'm a junior at mit, majoring in mechanical engineering. Um, my focus is in robotics and product design. Uh, originally from Seattle, Washington. Okay.Um, I'm really interested in a combination of robotics and, like, psychology, so artificial intelligence or that, ah, vein of thinking? Um, I'm also. I do a little bit of theater on the side, so considering doing some sort of combination. It's a wide range of interests, so I'm trying to figure out a way to, uh, um, put in a lot of them into one thing, but, yeah. Great.Yeah. Okay. So in high school, I was a lifeguard. And that's. It was a great job, but it was a lot of working with other lifeguards and kind of in a team situation. Um, and a lot of the times one person would have to step up in order to be a leader with, you know, uh, like, we taught swim lessons and I'd have a partner with me, and we'd both be teaching the same kids, and I'd have to, you know, tell them what to do or tell them what exactly we're going to do during that class, that sort of stuff.Okay. Um, not gonna use the lifeguard example again. Uh, in high school, we would have to work on team projects a lot. Um, I don't know, in history class or that kind of a thing, working with projects. And sometimes you have kids who wouldn't do, you know, their part on time or people didn't like what they were doing. And there was one specific time where we had a conflict where one girl just decided she didn't really want to do any of the projects. She wasn't really showing up to class, wasn't doing any of stuff she had to. So we had to talk to her and figure out what was going on and kind of resolve the conflict in that way.In what way?Yeah, so, I mean, us as a group, we met with the teacher, uh, and told her what was happening. And then the next day when the girl came to class, we sat her down and asked her why she wasn't doing the homework. Whatever. It was just a case of, you know, high school kids not wanting to do anything.Um, I have a really bad habit of trying to do everything all at once, and I sometimes put too much on my plate. And I recognize that you have to delegate tasks, ah, in a group or tell someone when they've given you too much to do. So I think it's kind of, in terms of how I'm trying to improve, that is, be realistic with myself on the amount of time I have or what my skills are. And if I need help, ask for it. Or if I need someone to do a part of it, ask for it. And early on and not the day before, something has to be done, tell them that it's not going to happen.Uh, I think you should hire me because of your company. Would be a great opportunity for me to learn and improve as an engineer. Uh, I think I just add a lot to the team in general in terms of my wide interests and education background.Bit more about your background? Yeah. So I'm a mechanical engineering student at mit. I'm a junior. Uh, my main focus is in robotics and product design. So I'm really interested in personal robotics and robotics that helps people on a daily basis.Um, yeah, I do think I'm a leader. Um, why I'm a leader. Um, I think that I'm very good at communicating with people and allowing people to be able to do something as a group together. So sort of facilitating communication between others as well as communicating myself to others, um, in that way. And also being able to motivate people and make sure they are on track with whatever they need to do in that way. I think to some extent, um, people can look up to me in terms of, you know, what I've done in the past with education or other things like that.Okay, yeah, so I do consider myself a team player. Um, I'm currently in a, uh, robotics class right now that's a team project based. And me and three other students and we recently had to decide on the design for our robot. And there was a little bit of not, not like total, you know, people not agreeing, but we had to decide between two main, two different designs and there was a little bit of friction between two people versus two people. It's a four person team and we needed to decide on majority. So, um, being a team player, we were able to kind of mix the two designs to a certain extent so that we could all agree on one. And I think by being a team leader or team player, excuse me, I was able to compromise to some extent or give ideas on how we could combine the two.Uh, I think if I could change one thing about myself, um, in terms of like personality, I assume you mean. Um, I probably. That's a hard question. I'd probably change the fact that I feel like I need to be constantly doing everything at once. So I think sometimes I need to focus on one thing other than another because I do have a really large variety of interests and I wish I had some way to, uh, not necessarily get rid of those interests, but recognize that I do need to focus down on one thing or one task at one time instead of trying to do everything at once.Uh, I think it could be really a, uh, beneficial part of adding to your company, and it would give me a really great opportunity to learn from the people that, uh, you guys have currently employed. Um, so if I was given that opportunity to both learn from them, but also give benefit to what you guys are doing, I think it'd be great. Great set.
P13: I'm a junior at MIT studying electrical engineering and computer science. I first became interested in engineering in high school when I did a summer internship at a lab at Material Science lab at UC Berkeley. And since then, I've taken several courses related to circuits and other electrical engineering topics. I've worked at electrical engineering labs at Stanford and at mit, and I've also worked in places like Promise Industries, which is a chip packaging company in the Silicon Valley.Tell me why. Yes, I've had several experiences where I've had to innovate and work with, take charge of a project and work with other people. Um, for instance, I'm part of the MIT Formula SAE team, and basically it's a club that builds a race car every year. Oh, wow.And as of. So we need a lot of money for sponsorship, but as of the end of last year, our website was pretty much debunked. M so I decided to take over as webmaster and one of my projects. And I. And over the summer and the beginning of the school year, I set up a new one that's nicely designed and things like that. And to get it up, I had to work with most of the other sub team leaders to get information that I needed. For instance, the specs of the car and pictures of the car, and also different events for PR and things like that. And it's done now, so it's online now.So. Yes, because, for instance, I'm also on the. Well, as I just mentioned, I'm on the Formula SAE team. And while I was working. While I was working on designing the website, I talked with several other people, including the public relations chair, about how to design and present ourselves on the website. And we disagreed about the layout and things like that. M so to resolve the issue, we basically looked at websites of. We looked at websites of several other successful teams and tried to. We basically both compromised to try to emulate things that seemed to work well for other people. And we also got opinions from several of the other team members.One thing right now is that I can get, uh, kind of hung up on small details in a project, and that can be an issue when I'm working on a big project, it could take too much time to focus on little things that don't matter too much in the big picture. But I'm working on changing that. So since I've come to mit, I've been involved in a lot of activities, a lot of classes, and this has forced me to manage my time well. So I've gotten better at focusing on the big picture during a project rather than small details that don't matter very much.I have the the quantitative and qualitative skills to solve problems and get things done, and I'm really interested in this position, and I think I could learn from it. Great.
P14: Good. How are you?Um, so I'm m a student at MIT and I'm a junior right now, but I'm probably going to graduate this year. So that's kind of exciting and scary at the same time. Like I said, I'm a computer science major. So some of the stuff that I'm interested in is computational photography, a lot of graphic stuff. Um, and I've done, I've had a bunch of experience with web development, mainly, uh, front end web development. So that's, I guess, where a lot of my experience lies.Um, so I was a member of the Society of Women Engineers and uh, with the Graduate Students association at mit and the senior class, they run the fall career fair, which is the only career fair in the fall and it's the biggest at mit. So I was actually the publicity chair for that. So it involves, you know, interfacing with over 230 companies and dealing with not only making the guidebook and making sure all the information is readily available to students, but also publicizing individual info sessions and obviously the career fair itself. So, so it definitely was a lot of responsibility and you know, not only did I have to become, um, a leader for the Society of Women Engineers and on that front, but also a leader amongst this smaller team of, you know, seven people who ran the career fair itself.Well, I. So for one of my classes, uh, we had to. It's a software design class where you have to work with other students and m. So I was assigned two teammates randomly and we had one teammate who really wasn't pulling their weight and wasn't, uh, contributing in a way that was fair and even. And so what we ended up doing is we all thankfully were able to sit down and talk. We were able to get a hold of her and we realized that it was because we were dividing the work in a way that made it really difficult for her. It was not playing off her strengths. So we redistributed the work. So she was able to do things that were still helpful but played more to her strengths.Um, I think one of my weaknesses is I'm a perfectionist. So when I do work on teams, I have trouble sometimes delegating tasks because I want to almost micromanage and make sure that everything's just the way it is. But uh, what I've done to overcome that is basically just sort of familiarized with myself with how to um, like say no to a task and just kind of, I guess modularize projects more. So I think I had trouble when I was always thinking big picture and then I would want to look at every single detail in that big picture. But if I just give myself one part of the project and just, you know, divide it into different modules in my head, then I'm able to just, you know, perfect my one part but not focus so much on every little detail.Uh, well, I think that my skill set is pretty unique because I'm both technical but also well spoken and I'm able to communicate really well and I think that's a pretty unique combination to have both of those two skills. Great.I'm a uh, computer science student here and I'm currently a junior but I'm planning on graduating early. So I'm right now looking into either getting my master's degree or looking at full time jobs as well and balancing that, uh, in terms of what I enjoy in computer science, I really like front end stuff. I've done a lot of web development. I worked at Google last summer on Google, but the front end for that and uh, yeah, so I really like consumer facing products.Tell me why. Well, I think I have a pretty engaging personality so I'm very expressive and I'm good at communicating things. So I think just that qualification in itself really lends me my uh, myself to leadership. But I think also uh, as a technical person it's especially useful to have those skills because I think they are more rare. So in that sense I do think I'm a leader because I possess uh, both technical skills and then also the ability to communicate really well. So the pairing of that does really lend itself well to leadership roles.Sure. So what's great about MIT is that we actually do a lot of group projects and they really encourage teamwork. So you know, a lot of the issues that maybe I didn't work out in high school in terms of working on a team, I've gotten the chance to flesh out here. And I do think that I've been able to grow um, as someone working on a team. So for example, in one of my classes, it's a software design class and we had to basically split up the work so that we could get this huge project done. And one of the people on my team was just really not pulling her weight. And so me and this other person noticed this and we were concerned, but we all discussed it, we sat down and discussed it and we realized just the way we were allocating the work wasn't playing to her strengths. So we adjusted how we were allocating the work and then things worked out a lot better. We were able to, you know, accomplish our goals and also more evenly divide the work.That's a hard question because I'm a pretty confident person so there's not a lot of things I don't often think about this. I guess I wish that, um, I wish I had the ability to, uh, I guess stop and enjoy the moment a little bit more. I think because I am very ambitious and I really enjoy life. I'm always going and moving and doing things and I think there's times where it is better to just relax and enjoy whatever's happening in your life. Um, but you know, I'm young so I like to try a lot of new things. Um, and you know, that's a consequence of that.Uh, so I mentioned this before, but I think I'm qualified in a lot of respects, both technically and in, in my communication skills. So that's just a balance that you don't see a lot, uh, especially in the computer science field. And so I think I can bring a lot to the table in terms of that, in terms of just leadership skills and my ability to talk to people, but also my ability to understand technical concepts and especially working at a technical company, that's incredibly important. So I think I have a good balance of that. And you're not going to find a lot of candidates like that great.
P15: Um, I'm doing fine, uh, thank you. How about you? Um, have you, like, you know, the storm? I hope that hasn't, like, disturbed your power too much.Oh, yeah. I mean, Boston didn't get hit too bad, so that's at least really fortunate.Um, okay, so I'm a current junior at mit. I'm studying biological engineering. Um, so some of the things I do on campus, I'm really involved in, um, MIT MedLife. So, um. Um, I'm secretary of, uh, the club and I go to the meetings. Um, um, part of my role is help, you know, organize rooms for, um, poster sessions and information sessions just to, like, spread the word of medlife around campus. Um, and that's, um, sort of helped me, like, explore. Like, it has really gotten me more interested in the field of, like, healthcare. Um, that plus, like, my, um, my studies. Um, I'm also involved in Chinese Students Club as cultural chair. So I do a lot of pubbing on, um, campus for, um, events like Night Market, which I helped organize just last week. So, uh, that sort of helps me with my communication skills, you know, talking to the officers of other student clubs.Okay, so, um, last this past summer, I, uh, worked in a research lab in Bangkok. And it was the first time that I had ever been outside of, you know, the United States for an extended period of time. And one of my assignments was to, you know, sort of lead, sort of like, drive the direction of, like, a research project that they were doing, which was to research, um, a generic, um, in hopes of releasing it to the market sometime in the future. Because I was partnered up with a lab partner that was less experienced than I was, I found myself in many situations having to help guide her along in getting up to speed with the project and the techniques that we needed to do our experiments. Um, it was. It was a little bit of a strange dynamic because she was older than me, because she was an incoming graduate student, but she did not have much research, like, lab experience. So I had to balance being informative without making it seem like she was in some ways my superior. So that was like, um, I had to teach her the techniques, coming off as like, oh, I know more than you do. Um, but what I found was what worked for both of us was that, um, I would, like, explain it to her before we were in the lab, which helped cut down a lot of the frustration that came up if she had to ask questions between every step. So that's probably the one way I showed my leadership.Okay, So a couple IEPs ago, I worked for a startup. They were a green building resources directory online. And I worked with my fellow extern on helping to market this, the use of this directory to the clients. Um, so we had. It was a little bit difficult because we had to cold call a lot of people and getting over the initial awkwardness of what it is like to talk to somebody you never met or seen before and trying to pitch an idea to them, uh, and be like, oh, there's this really great resource and you've signed up for it, but we've never notice that you haven't used it. Are there things that you feel would make it better? Um, things that you would like to see that you think would make it more effective? And, um, we both had to sort of teach ourselves how to talk to the reps that we're calling and we would, um, strategize what worked, what didn't, what had people respond and what didn't. And by like documenting it all down also so that we could leave like a record of what worked for maybe someone else was to come. So, um, eventually we actually got like a system, like a way we would structure questions and ask them that worked and like elicited like a helpful response.Okay. Um, so something. So a weakness that I found, um, and I'm still like, working to try to like, overcome it is I tend to be long winded in explaining things. Um, it's hard for me to take something that I'm thinking about and communicating it, um, concisely, um, the first time around because I feel like I always leave something out after I finish saying it. So I tend to go back and elaborate. And then while I'm thinking about it still, I'll talk more about what's coming to mind. M. It's something that I've been working on by signing up for things like this and by trying to take up a more prominent role in the clubs I'm in and trying to participate more actively in my classes. Um, trying as much as I can to go to, um, lab presentations for my urop and speaking in front of audiences to try to um, make myself less long winded and more concise.Um, I think that I can bring something different, a new perspective to the table. Especially coming from mit, having um had a very quantitative background um and given that I've had extensive experience um in research um and my leadership activities on campus. I think that I can bring both the technical skill and um a way to effectively hopefully communicate. To um communicate my ideas and bring like a different sort of perspective to your company. And I'm hard working um and I always want to make sure that I will do a good job and detail oriented and um. I just love working with other people on projects that excite me so. So um. That's something that um. I come from MIT with a lot of experience with is working with people, collaborating. And uh. That's definitely a skill that I can bring to your company. So thank you for your time.More about my background? Are we assuming that.Okay. Okay. Um, all. Ah, right. Um, so I guess I'll start out with, uh. I decided to go to MIT as my undergrad school because I wanted a strong education, science and math and, um, would be one of the best places to develop my problem solving skills and my quantitative skills, which is really valuable, I feel m for employers nowadays. And so I can certainly say that I have definitely got a lot better at learning how to solve problems, working with others. Um, and it's also given me a lot of opportunity. MIT has given me a lot of opportunity to test out my leadership skills by having so many different student groups. Um, in particular, um, I feel that my position as the 2014 Treasurer my freshman year was really critical at helping me develop, um, time management skills, interpersonal skills, and communicating with, like, not only. Or like, not only with the. With like, um, people who are, you know, adults who are older than you and working with people in different offices, but also, like, with your peers. Similarly, um, in Chinese Students Club, I've found, um, or I've taken a leadership role as a cultural chair that, unlike in, say, high school, you need to really spearhead, um, efforts to like, throw large events yourself. And that's like. It's really given me, um, a feel of what it's like to sort of, you know, take on responsibility of like, organizing an event.Um.Um, I think. I'm sorry. I, uh, think that I am definitely a leader. As I shared with you previously, I, um, have taken, um, positions with great responsibility in the student groups that I'm involved in and as well in my major. Um, I'm in biological engineering. And I think that, uh, I've taken a lot of initiative in finding ways to test out the concepts I learned in class outside of class by finding a, uh, research position in the Langer lab, um, where the weekly lab meetings has really helped me improve my communication skills of presenting information to my audience.Okay. Um, I think probably the best example, I definitely consider myself a team player. I had to work in teams in everything I've had to do so far, from academics to my work experience, um, in my startup internship my freshman year, um, and my corporate internship my sophomore year, um, everything was. I had to learn how to, um, not only do the task that was given to me, but to also sort of be able to, you know, delegate tasks to who I was working with and carry out what was asked of me as well. Um, last summer I was, um, I did an international UROP in Thailand and my lab partner was a graduate student who was older than me, but we were partners on the project. Um, but we found that our levels of technical skill were really different. It was her first time working in any sort of lab, whereas I was more experienced. So that sort of created a strange dynamic between us, um, because I had to take the lead, even though she was given more responsibility because more was expected from her. So I had to sort of help her out and get her up to speed with, with the project. Um, and I needed to do that in a way that didn't hurt our personal relationship because we did also have to live together. Um, being Americans abroad, we really stayed together for most of it. So I felt that being just really honest and transparent with her was, um, the best way. Um, just to like, say what about, you know, say, you know, just like, speak up about our frustrations, but also like to compliment on like the things that are done. Well, I think that's what really helped.If you were given an option to.So one thing I wish I was better at was, uh, you know, speaking well when put on the spot, um, I tend to, when I'm nervous, I tend to, you know, not really focus on what I'm saying because I'm trying not to mess up. And in order to hide that, I also, you know, channel the stress in different ways. Such as, like, looking around, perhaps a lot of intrusive movement with my hands or my body. And also speaking being long winded and speaking too much in order to cover that up. So I think that just being more comfortable with speaking, um, in the higher pressure situation, such as public speaking or in an interview, um, is something that I would like to improve.Okay. Um, so I think that I can bring with my skills and experiences, um, someone who is really, can work well under stress. I may not talk well under stress. Work well under stress. I think my academic being, um, you know, having the rigorous undergraduate curriculum at MIT has made me really hone my time management skills. Um, the other week I had to juggle, um, um, you know, throwing together a large event for Chinese students club, um, and have meetings with the cultural chairs of the other clubs. Um, I've also had to. At the same time, there's a big event coming up that my sorority is organizing that I also have to help contribute to. Um, and, like, I had a friend who was also going through a tough time, so I had to, like, help her out. That. And then on top of that, complete all my schoolwork and also, um, you know, just, like, keep on the lookout. Now that I'm a junior, there's a lot of, like, you know, opportunities that. Such as, like, fellowships and, like, programs over, like, IEP or the summer that have, like, application deadlines coming up and just being able to balance all of that. Um, and so far, um, I think that, like, my experiences, um, that I was able to be on top of all those deadlines, not only now, but, like, in the past. And I think it says a lot about, um, my ability to work hard but also balance out my lifestyle. So I think that this would be a huge asset to your company.
P16: Very good. How are you?Yeah. Um, so I'm a junior here at mit, um, studying economics as well as urban planning, um, and within those departments I'm really trying to focus on international development. Um, and because I'm interested in either after school going into either like public health, um, or public policy type areas, but both focusing on international development. Um, I'm from Rhode, outside of Philadelphia, um, and I am the, uh, second youngest of three.Uh, sure. Um, so currently I'm actually the co president of an organization here on campus called globemed. Um, and we actually started last year. Um, but last year it was founded by a different person. Um, although I was part of the founding member board, I guess you would say. Um, and I guess last year, basically what happened was that the person who founded it, I think did it mostly for her resume, um, and she wasn't really invested in it. Um, and so basically last year was pretty much just a flop like we did. We really didn't accomplish much last year. Uh, so this year really has been trying to start over M as well as trying to take what kind of felt was wrong last year, um, and really try and fix those pieces. But also what I really realized from the whole experience is that leadership also needs to be recognizing that you are only a leader for a certain period of time. Um, and you really need to be able to kind of set up a situation in which people can easily transition into your spot. I mean, especially in a college setting, you're going to be the president for a year or maybe two years. Um, and I think what we really learned because of struggle we had to go through this year was like, trying to set up that type of UM system. And also kind of what. Last year there was a lot of tension within the group just because, you know, we were like, what are we doing? Like, why aren't we doing anything? Um, and there wasn't a lot of transparency. So really trying to emphasize that this year. Um, and we were so. I keep saying we because co presidents to my friend Sherry and I, but we have been able to expand the club. Um, last year we had about maybe like 14 members, um, maybe like 10 or less that were truly actually committed. And now we're at I think 30 members, um, which is a really, really exciting thing.Yeah.That's a good question. I, um, think so. Freshman year, um, I participated in a program here called Terrascope, um, and it's a program that basically gives freshmen a problem to solve. Um, kind of like a world problem. And so you're just kind of left on your own to solve it. Um, and our problem was solving world hunger. So it's really like a problem that no one has actually solved. Um, and what I really learned from that was a lot about group dynamics. I think, because it was all freshman led. You had all these freshmen coming from a bunch of schools where they were the top. They were the ones used to leading everything. Um, and I think one of the main problems we had was maybe not necessarily figuring out the problem, but like, figuring out how to best organize ourselves and how to best, kind of, um, when people should step up and be leaders. Um, so what I guess learned from that a lot was trying to not necessarily, like, pinpoint one leader, but more like collaborative working together. Um, because what, like, seemed to happen when one person would step up to be a leader, they necessarily wouldn't be. They. Not like, they necessarily wouldn't be doing a lot. Um, they would just kind of be, like, trying to tell people what to do, and that was not effective at all. Um, instead of just like, trying to brainstorm together, like, problem solve together, maybe have, like, just one person, kind of almost be more of a facilitator, um, and kind of leading the discussion instead of telling people what to do, being like, oh, this is what you said. Like, do you want to follow up, ah, on that? Or, like, how can we best, um, really tackle that issue? And I think what I learned from that was that, you know, in order to be like, a leader within a group, you need to be more, like, asking questions than telling people what to do. And, like, giving people more responsibility, um, and like, making them feel like they're taking ownership versus like you're putting on a ship. Um, and so I think that's what the purpose of the class actually is, to teach you how to work in groups. Because throughout mit, you do work in groups. Psets. Um, so I think I actually learned a lot from that class. Just, like, kind of observing how everything was going on.Um. Um, so let's think that's a good question. I think sometimes I have trouble working on a project when, like, for example, when I have too much time. Right. So, um, for example, this summer I was working in D.C. um, and I felt like when I wasn't given an exact deadline, I didn't necessarily, like, push myself to work and, like, get it done, um, because it wasn't necess, because I didn't have a deadline. Like, I wasn't sure, you know, when it needed to be done. So I kind of was like, oh, that's fine. Like, I can do that later. So I think one of my weaknesses is definitely, like, pushing things off unless there's a deadline. Um, so I've really been trying to work on, like, setting internal deadlines for myself, um, and trying to stick to those deadlines because I think it's, like, really hard. Um, especially when you have a lot of things to do to figure out how to prioritize and actually come through with the deadlines. Um, and I think that's really an important skill throughout life. Um, and so, for example, this week, I have a lot of things due at the end of the week. So trying to get at least a certain amount done by Tuesday, um, and kind of like evaluating my progress throughout the week, um, is something I've been trying to work on more.Um, well, we'll pretend this is the International Food Policy Research Institute. Um, I am really interested in studying the intersection of nutrition and health, um, especially in the kind of evaluating project areas. So recently I actually switched to economics. Um, I was originally studying biology, but I felt that I could. That there's more to be done in economics in terms of helping people. Um, and I really would be excited to learn more about how food security and nutrition intersect, and I would be very committed and willing to work as much as you needed me to.
P17: All right. So can you tell me a little.Great. And do you think you're a leader?Great. Okay. Do you consider yourself a team player? And can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?Great. Um, if you were given an option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Okay, last question.
P20: How are you?Um, so I'm a junior at mit. I'm majoring in environmental engineering. Um, and so I'm taking classes this semester in hydrology, environmental transport. Um, I've done internships previously with, um, environmental restoration companies. And I also participated in research last summer.Um, I'd like to go to grad school after I graduate in environmental engineering again.So, this semester I became president of the Women's Independent Living Group, um, after being house manager last semester. So I worked through a lot of problems within the house and trying to kind of get the right atmosphere in the house.Um, so as house manager, um, I organized work week at the beginning of this year. So it's a time when there's about 30 members in the house and everybody gets together and, um, works in the house, paints rooms, like, fixes it up, um, before the school year starts. So, um, I organized that, assigned jobs to people and facilitated that.So I'm also on the rowing team.And I'm not sure if it's exactly what you're looking for, but I guess, um, I was in the second boat last year, and we were having a lot of problems throughout the season. Kind of like, we'd go to a race and it would be okay, but we weren't performing up to our standards. And so it was a big struggle for me to try and figure out how to kind of help turn the attitude around in the boat. And, um, we were finally able to pull it off in our very last race. And we won the semifinals at, um, Patriot League. So I think it's the right mix of, like, knowing when to speak up and say something and, like, knowing what to say.Was by, um, kind of by speaking up and letting people know. Not, like, putting people down, but letting people know that there was more potential to be had.Um, one of my m. Weaknesses, I tend to be, I guess, a little more withdrawn sometimes. Um, and that's something that I've been working on. Like, I've taken leadership roles in my house and as part of the rowing team. Um, but I think something good about that is I tend to be a very good listener, and then I'M starting to learn when to speak up and become more of a, like, a front role player.I, um, think I'm, like, extremely responsible. Um, I have a lot of experience, and this is something that I think will really help further my career goals and something that I'm really excited about learning about, and so I'll put a lot of effort into this project.Okay. Um, this is separate from last time, right? Okay. Um, I'm a junior, um, at MIT Studying environmental engineering. I'm originally from Minnesota. Um, I'm taking classes this semester in hydrology and environmental transport. And I found them really interesting, and I thought that they would apply to this job. Yeah.Tell me why. Um, yeah, I think I've stepped up to a lot of leadership positions since I came to college. I'm president of my living group. Um, I also am on the rowing team. And I feel like I've, um, played a leadership role there. Okay. Um, so as president of my living group, I lead house meetings every other week. And I also am involved in resolving problems between people. Um, so there's, like, several different positions in the house which control, like, say, for instance, like, buying food or, like, maintaining the house. And I help coordinate everybody and make sure that they can work together.Yeah, M. I guess something that's come up in my living group. I was house manager last semester. And so as part of our living group, people have to do, like, weekly house jobs. So, like, m kind of chores. And so we've definitely had conflicts over, like, people who weren't pulling their weight in the house. And there were times that I had to step in and take the person aside and let them know that they were adversely affecting the group and that there were consequences if they didn't, um, end up pulling more weight. And I definitely had success with that. And, um, one particular instance, I talked to someone, and she came back to the next house meeting and apologized to the group and definitely started January 8th. Yes.I don't. I don't think there's anything I would necessarily change about myself. I feel like the experiences I've had have, like, taught me different things. And, um, there's definitely things I'm working on growing in, but they're things that, like, I don't think there are things I would expect to change overnight, necessarily.Um, I'm working on being more outgoing. So, like I said, I've stepped up both on the crew team and as part of my living group, into leadership roles. And so I think that's changed a lot in the last couple of years is still changing.I think I have a lot of experience, um, with the classes I've taken and with previous internship opportunities. I, um, did an internship at an environmental restoration company after my freshman year, which I think helped prepare me. Um, I'm also really excited about going into this field. I haven't had a chance to apply the things I've learned in my classes yet, and I think that this would be a really good opportunity for me to apply those things. So I think I would be able to help the company out in that way.
P21: So how are you doing today?Good. So tell me about yourself.Great. What are your career goals?Great. Okay, so tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership.Okay, great. So tell me about a time you were on a team and faced a challenge. How did you solve that problem?It's okay. Take your time. Um, it doesn't necessarily have to be extracurricular either.Okay, great. So can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it? Okay.And last question. Why do you think we should hire you?Okay, so uh, I grew up in Tampa, Florida, um, from uh, parents of Chinese American descent or they're from China and I'm Chinese American. And um, throughout my um, high school career I actually really liked uh, taking biology classes because I had a really good teacher who like really made this uh, subject material engaging. Um, and then here in MIT, um, I first started out as course 20 which is ah, biological engineering. And then I took my first programming class and I really liked it. It's like um, I think it sort of matches um, how I think like telling a computer how to uh, do things in a precise way. And so that's why I switched to course six, seven.Tell me why. Um, I think that I'm a leader in the sense that like uh, let's say if there's a thing that needs to get done then I will make sure that uh, it does get done. Like um, for example at uh, the Tech, which is MIT student newspaper, um, every week you have to like edit things. And when the previous um, campus Life editor wanted to move on to a different department, I stepped up and got it done. Um, yeah.So I guess when I haven't had like a super large amount of time of experience doing like really large team projects, I imagine I'll get more experience in that as I get into like more project based classes. Um, I guess I would um, I'm okay with working with other people as long as like there's like clear communication and like people are responsible like um, doing the tasks that they're supposed to be doing. I guess I would be good working in a team with other responsible people that make sure they're doing your portion of the job because I want to make sure I'm also doing my portion of the job. And uh, if everybody does their part then I think that I would be happy working with them.Hmm. Well actually statistically I think that I would like to be a little bit taller because actually it's true. I believe that like taller people are more like um, they get better like jobs and like they're statistically more likely to succeed just because you're more impressed by a taller person. So it's like well uh, sure, why not? I think it would make, it might have some percentage chance of making my life better. Also maybe if there's another second thing, changing my last name to something that starts with A because that's also shown to statistically increase your chances of success.Um, are we still the same company? That was. Okay. Um, so I hope that um, I have. So I would obviously really love working for Google and my skills as being responsible, communicating clearly. My uh, computer science skills I learned at MIT I hope will bring a lot of uh, value to this position. And I also really um, would I hope to embody Google's principles of um, making really innovative software and delivering really good customer experiences. Um, and I hope that um, they will uh. I hope you will also find my contribution, you can find my uh, contributions useful.
P22: I'm good. How are you?Okay. Um, I'm a junior in aerospace engineering. Um, I'm originally from Kansas City, um, and I was born on the East Coast. I'm currently deciding whether or not I want to go into aerospace industry or go into consulting or another management related field. And I'm minoring in management at slo.So right now I'm actually quite involved with the Global Poverty Initiative here at mit and I'm currently the Director of Action, uh, under gpi. Global Poverty Initiative. So I'm currently in charge of projects that we are, uh, involved with abroad. So that includes, um, projects in Mexico, service projects in Central Mexico as, uh, well as a project with a domestic, um, an NGO in India that works with domestic workers in setting up domestic workers with local employers and training women and working with employee employer relationships. Um, most of my work has been on the Mexico project and I led a team. I actually have traveled down three times. And we have a greenhouse initiative that is our main goal right now. And I oversaw a team of four people on two separate trips where we built 14 greenhouses, um, as well as conducted classes at a secondary school, um, as well as classes for adults in both computers and English. Uh, and we worked with NGOs on the ground, um, and they've actually managed to continue our project since we've been gone, uh, as well as working with the Peace Corps. And uh, they've actually recently decided to send a full time Peace Corps volunteer to the rural community where we were working. That's great. That was really validating.Okay, um, well, most of the challenges that I faced with the team have been with my projects in Mexico. So probably the largest challenge that we had when we got there was working across cultures and identifying with community members. Because when we went there we had originally thought, uh, we had brainstormed project ideas like solar ovens and greenhouses and biodigesters, um, which are used to make fertilizer from, uh, natural waste. And when we got there we talked to lots of community members and first of all, they can be rather skeptical of outsiders coming in. So we first had to earn their trust and we had to establish that we weren't going to, um, just come in and give them something and leave them. And this wasn't going to be a handout uh, so it was interesting being a leader within my group and trying to help those who had not had the same experiences with other cultures and working with people across borders. Uh, so helping those people adjust as well as working that relationship between rural Mexicans who have limited experience with outsiders and are used to either government handouts or people coming in and doing one thing and leaving and not following up. Um, and so that was a challenge. But in the end, we ended up using community feedback to determine which project we wanted to do. So they were most interested in greenhouses as well as some amount of small business. And we ended up catering to both of those project ideas. Uh, and the way that we decided to work around the. Not wanting to seem like we were giving a handout, but we actually had all the families build their own greenhouses with our help. So we distributed all the materials and then had them pay small deposits so that they would have some small investment into the project. Obviously, they couldn't afford to pay for the whole thing. Um, and then we worked with each individual family, and they built it and made it their own, and then they had a bigger incentive to take care of it.Yeah, sometimes I can be disorganized. I, uh, mean, I think everyone struggles with that a little bit. Um, but the way that I try to deal with that is recently I've taken to becoming a list person in order for me to ensure that I get things done. I always get things done. But, you know, when you leave things for the last minute, sometimes the quality of your work is not always the best. So, uh, to deal with this, I've tried to break down all the problems and break down my tasks into small steps, make lists, and then set separate deadlines for each individual thing, knowing that if I have things that come up and everything is all due at the same time, everything needs to be done at once, I can try to handle that. Uh, and also I've learned that it's important to delegate your tasks. Um, especially with gpi, being Director of Action, a lot of the responsibility falls on me. And it can be very easy to be like, oh, yeah, I need to take care of this and talk to these people. But that's why I have a team. So there are 20 people on GPI action. So in order to delegate those tasks, it makes my life easier and it keeps other people involved.I think I have a diverse skill set. And I have very diverse, um, background working with other cultures, not only in Mexico, but I've had experiences in Europe and in China. And, um, I'm biracial myself. Um, and I think I have a very unique background, and especially as an engineer who's interested in going into consulting. And I have work experience, um, at SpaceX and NASA and other, um, companies. I think I offer a very unique perspective into what your company culture would be. Um, and I think that's very important in not having everyone have the same background and everyone in your community. You need different perspectives in your environment, and I think I would definitely help fill that.Okay. I'm a junior in aerospace engineering. I'm originally from Kansas City, born in Maryland. And I'm interested in consulting because I'm currently trying to decide between going into aerospace industry and going into consulting. And one of the things that appeals to me about consulting is that I like the idea of working on different projects and not being stuck doing the same thing all the time. And that's something that is very prevalent in engineering and is very traditional about the engineering field. As far as hobbies that I enjoy, um, I am interested in global development, international, uh, development and poverty related issues as well as music. I play cello and I'm involved with the Chamber of Music Society at mit.Yes, I definitely do think I'm a leader. Um, one of the global poverty or one of the organizations I'm involved with on campus is the Global Poverty Initiative. And I'm currently their director of action. And what that means is I am leading a student group of about 20 people and uh, under the action branch of the whole organization. And what we do is, um, in the action branch is work on projects on a global scale. So we have projects currently in India and projects in Mexico. And my job is to coordinate these projects and um, work on what communities we want to go work in and what types of technology related projects we would like to pursue. And I've been involved with this organization for two and a half years now. Um, and have been the director of action for the past two years.Huh? Um, I definitely do consider myself a team player. Um, one time that we experienced some conflict in one of the teams that I was working on was actually in one of my aerospace engineering classes. Uh, and in this team our job was to build an RC airplane. Design, build and fly it. And we hit some conflicts within our team because it was mostly everyone was very busy, everyone was very stressed. It was towards the end of the year when everyone was preparing for finals and it was just a very high strung environment. And the project was very involved. It involved machining, it involved design work and coordination between a team of four. And what ended up happening was, well, we needed to get in and find the time to actually work on our airplane and build it. Whereas all of us were involved in, um, student groups and had very heavy course load and conflict did arise. And how we ended up solving this was. We all decided that something needed to change, and we realized that we weren't putting together quality work when we were doing two people at a time or two people coming in or someone canceling at the last minute or things like that. And we ended up just having to sit down, lay it all out, discuss what do we need to do in order to make sure that we are all here, we are all committing the right amount of time towards this project. And honestly, it was just very much a group effort. And we all sat down and individually realized that we needed to prioritize, and I needed to put my classes above some of my interests and my hobbies. And that was something that we all decided to do as a group.One thing about myself being more on top of my work. Uh, something that I definitely need for myself is a deadline. And I've always been like that. If you don't give me a deadline, sometimes I'll end up dragging my feet and things get done at the last minute. And it's just disorganization. And so I've been trying to deal with that, um, by making my own small deadlines, personal deadlines, writing them down, making lists, and making sure that I prioritize things in advance. But that's something that has taken me m. Probably two years at MIT to learn how to do, and I'm finally getting it. Good.I think I should get the job because I have a very interesting background and I believe that I have very unique experiences that could add a lot to your organization as someone with an engineering background, but as well as a management background, because I am minoring in management at mit and I think that combination adds a lot to the environment that you would like to have at your company. I, uh, think putting a lot of people together in one environment, trying to work on the same projects with the same background is something that is very limiting. And I believe that I could add quite a bit of diversity and unique perspective to your team.
P24: I'm doing very well. How are you?I'm currently a junior at mit. I'm studying biology. I am interested in pursuing some m. Sort of future in medicine, but I don't know if necessarily like the med school route or more the research side, but, you know, having to do with patient care and drugs and things like that within the broader field. But I'm not sure specifically what path yet.Okay. So, um, the summer after my sophomore year of high school, I actually went on a leadership trip. Um, so it was through, uh, my summer camp and some other camps that are part of the same foundation. And we actually went on a trip to Israel for the summer. And it was the first time I had ever been, which was very exciting. Um, and it was a very cool experience because not only were they teaching a lot of leadership skills, but also a lot of, you know, the daily activities we did, like, going for really long hikes and things just kind of brought out that innate like someone has to make sure everyone brought enough water and, you know, make sure the group sang together and things like that. Uh, so that was definitely something that I think impacted me a lot. And I think, you know, in other leadership roles, you know, even in a small group project or something, a lot of the time I find myself reflecting back to that trip and kind of saying, like, okay, we were in a tough spot like that before. How did we kind of rally the group back together? Something like that.So. So I think, um, this situation arises a lot of times in lab. So I was. This past summer, I was back in Israel and working in a lab at the Hebrew University. And it was a pretty small lab. I was working, um, for one of the postdocs. And then there are about four other people in the lab. And so things like that kind of came up all the time where it would be a matter of, okay, we don't have the exact materials that we needed to do the experiment. Can I borrow this from this lab? Could someone check down the hall if maybe they have this? And just kind of that group mentality of making sure everyone was getting their experience experiments done. Um, and then it was also interesting because there were a lot of language barriers that were going on in lab, um, because there were some Israelis that were working there. And then One of the PhD students was from Russia, and then two of the postdocs were from India. Um, and so the common language among them was English, but in sort of a broken down manner in different ways.So that was kind of interesting also coming in and sort of having to step into that role of almost like translating English to English for people, checking emails and making sure they made sense and things like that.Sure. So I'm currently a junior at mit. I grew up outside of the city in a suburb called Natick. I've danced my whole life and continue, uh, to do so at mit. And I'm studying biology currently and for my humanities concentration I'm concentrating in Spanish.I would say definitely in various aspects of my life I try to step up as a leader. Uh, I'm currently involved in an internship through hello at mit. And so the point of the internship is to act as a, uh, peer network engagement intern. So basically reaching out to other Jewish students at MIT who may not be looking for a very religious atmosphere, but just would like to know that there are other Jewish students that they can connect with. And so my role as uh, the leader in the situation is to connect various students who have similar interests either in community service or things like that, and sort of set up a network for them.Sure. I would definitely hope that I'm a team player. I think it's definitely important to have leadership qualities, but also to be able to mesh well within a group. I think this comes out a lot in lab settings where everyone from Undergraduate students to PhD candidates and postdocs really have to work together on um, similar projects. And so being able to voice your opinions or your concerns about experiments while still taking the feedback from others and making it more of a group effort than a hierarchy, I would say is crucial.I think if I could change one thing, it would probably be to have a little bit more self confidence. I think I externally try to project a calm and outgoing personality, but, but inside I can tend to be a little bit shy. Mhm. And so I think just being able to walk into any kind of either social or business related situation and really have that confidence without having to second guess myself would help move along both career wise and just with relationships with other people.I think uh, coming with a background from MIT would definitely help me out in this job. Uh, the biology department at MIT is really unique in its focus on research and so I think coming into this lab setting with that background would make me a strong candidate.
P25: Uh, I'm good. How are you?Um, I'm uh, course 16 here at MIT which is aeronautical and astronautical engineering. I am a junior M and my experience has been last summer I worked with NASA Glenn Research center doing uh, interplanetary rover work. Um, I was um, doing design work with Jeff Landis as my mentor. Um, so yeah, I had a really good time working on that project, um, doing a lot of matlab coding, making a lot of design decisions, um, as well as separately working on a project with just my fellow interns where we um, where we built an autonomous navigation system for Dropsonde, um, which is a meteorological measuring device. Um, but we didn't worry about the Dropsonde itself. We were just concerned with building the navigation system, um, so that it could be recovered by um, the people who are using it. Um, I personally worked on the steerable parafoil parachute for that.Yes, I can. Um, when we were working on the Dropsonde project, which I mentioned before, there was um, some question about whether we were gonna be able to get a good drop site for it. M Because in order to test how the navigation system works, we had to have the thing flying for a significant period of time. Um, so it was fairly. It takes not um, very long for most things to fall from reasonable heights. So we had to find a really good drop location. Um, and we were having a lot of trouble with that. And um, we, we were pursuing some options with working with NASA, um, but it didn't look like they were going to work out. Um, and I took initiative. Um, and I went and I contacted the owner of this airport where we had, we had been skydiving there previously in the summer. Um, so we like spoken to the owner there before, but not like, not about anything official. We just said hi, we're skydiving at your airport. Um, but I called him, talked to him about it, um, and got actually um, uh, a plane and a free flight for our team to go and be able to drop our project. Uh, which was pretty significant for the success of the project.Well, I guess I should probably pick a different time that I was working on a team. Um, so, um, when for the Venus rover, which was the other project that I worked on last summer, um, we had, um, we basically started just with Nothing. Um, because this idea is really like in early design phases, it's not like there's no Venus rover being built by any team. It's just people sitting down, working equations, figuring out what could be feasible for a Venus rover. Um, so there's a lot of flexibility there, a lot of room to sort of, um, figure out what we thought would work out best. And initially, um, there are two basically competing ideas. Um, there was the idea of using a, uh, wind turbine to power the rover versus having it actually be a Land Sailor. Um, and I mean, there was no clear answer regarding which one of those was better. The, uh, wind turbine had some advantages in that it would be able to sit and charge. It would be able to sit still and um, accumulate power as the wind blew on it. So it wouldn't have to be moving constantly. Whereas the Land Sailor would have to have some, um, threshold level of wind to move to overcome static friction. If it didn't have that, then it wouldn't be able to do anything useful. M so in that way, the turbine seemed a little bit less risky. But the turbine also has more moving parts. Um, and it would require a little bit more on the electronic side, and that's riskier as well. Um, um, so, yeah, it was not a clear decision. Um, and basically the team was split between wanting to do the turbine and wanting to do the Land Sailor. Um, so I mean, what we ended up doing was, um, I was pro turbine, so I ended up doing an analysis of the wind turbine, and my fellow intern, who was pro landsailer, did an analysis of the Land Sailor. Uh, neither of us did anything super in depth, but we just did a basic analysis and then we compared our numbers, we looked through each other's processes, made um, sure that we were sort of working from the same assumptions, um, which we were because we both did an honest job with it. Um, and then we just went based on the math, which one seemed like it was gonna work out better. Um, so it ended up being very non confrontational. Good.The turbine did, which I was happy about.Um, yeah. I am not extremely well organized. Um, so, uh, yeah, my work tends to be a little bit of a mess and I have trouble meeting deadlines, but I, um, overcome it just by recognizing that's something that will happen to me where my m, um, work will become sloppy and I will miss deadlines if I don't really pay attention to it. So I do by writing down deadlines and keeping a Google calendar, um, trying to keep on top of things.I, um, think you should hire me because, um, I am intelligent and hard working, um, and I think that. I think my grades at MIT really, uh, prove that I am intelligent and hard working. Um, and I think that as well as that, I also have the experience that you would want at jpl. Um, working on interplanetary rovers. I've done that before. I've also worked on teams, um, to try to accomplish goals. So I think that really, I am a pretty well qualified applicant for this position. Great.How are you doing today?Good. Can you tell me some more about your background?That's great. All right. You think you're a leader? Tell me why.Do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where you had a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?That's great. Okay. If you were given an option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Great. And why do you think you should get a job?
P27: I'm doing well, thank you.Um, I'm currently a junior studying chemistry and biology at, uh, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. I'm primarily interested in biochemistry research, specifically how small molecules interact with the body and produce physiological effects. I've done research as an undergraduate in a lab that's chemistry and biological, um, engineering. So I've been able to work kind of at a chemical biology interface. Great.I've demonstrated leadership through my role in my dorm's House government. I've been dining chair and environmental chair for almost two years. So through that I've been able to work with others and, um, work with the other members of House government as well as the administration, um, and bring, um, concerns from residents to the administration and represent them.I've, um, been able to work on teams, um, during my undergraduate classes. In our laboratory classes in the chemistry department, we generally work, um, in small groups of two or three. So there's definitely been challenges in those situations where, for example, a team member accidentally does something wrong and, like, costs us a lot of product or makes our experiment go wrong. And I found it helpful to kind of be able to put, you know, put aside my annoyance at what someone's done in the moment and figure out how to move forward. M. Um, as opposed to just being frustrated with the fact that where we are currently trying to see how to go forward with that.I would say my weakness is actually leadership experience because I haven't had a lot of it. Um, I also haven't had much experience working in a team environment, but I have been seeking out opportunities to improve this, um, looking for even more of a role in House government this year, um, and actually running for House president soon to try and get a real leadership position. So I'm trying to get more experience in those areas.I think you should hire me because I bring experience from my education at mit, which has really prepared me for a rigorous work environment to work hard and be able to solve problems. And I've demonstrated this through my work at other internships and my research that I've already done.I'm doing well, thank you.Tell me more about your background. Ah, so I'm a junior. Sorry, I don't. I'm sorry. I just um, I'm just confused about like, are we, are we going like the same thing as last time or do I need to introduce myself again?Okay, Okay. I got confused. I was like, wait, am I supposed to. Okay, sorry. Um, so I'm a junior at mit studying chemistry and biology. I'm primarily interested in how small molecules interact with biological systems such as, um, the effects of drugs or toxins or other metabolites on the body and cells. I've done research since coming to mit, uh, in the lab of Professor John Essenman in chemistry and biological engineering. I've been looking at the mechanism of a drug that's currently in phase two, clinical trials for treatment of hiv. Um, in addition, I've also done organic synthesis to develop, um, spacers for drug delivery, um, at the Curie Institute in Paris.I think I am a leader. I've done work in my dorm, house government as ah, dining chair and environmental chair to take a leadership role, um, and help residents to um, express their concerns with the dining plan, um, and to make changes to help make the residential experience better for them.I definitely consider myself a team player. I've done a lot of work in teams in my chemistry undergraduate labs where uh, we're often working in groups of like two or three. Um, there have been conflicts in those situations where um, it's difficult to like if a team member uh, messes up something or even before that, if team members come to the team with different lab experience due to their research background or classes they've taken before trying to figure out how to balance it. So everyone gets to do the lab and have hands on experience while at the same time making sure that things go smoothly and that we work in an efficient manner. Um, so it can be difficult to balance these things such that everyone gets a fair chance at doing the hands on component. But we generally resolve this by taking turns and the people who are more experienced, kind of, you know, supervise in almost a mentor like way. The person who has less experience.I would, if I could change one thing about myself, it would be to be able to let go of things that have happened and like negative things that have happened more easily. Because I find that sometimes I can dwell on negative things that have happened, and it causes me to worry a lot about the future and become very anxious or to hinder what I want to do in the future. Like being concerned, being so worried about, uh, performance in a class after not doing well on exam that I get stressed out for the next exam. And that can kind of create a, uh, negative cycle. So if I could change one thing, it would be learning how to put bad things behind me and move ahead. It's something I've definitely been working on and having to work on since I came to mit, where you get used to a lot of things, can not have negative things happen, but learning to push, uh, through that.I think I should get the job because I have experience from my coursework, which is very rigorous at mit, in addition to my practical experience with research, which has taught me what the research process is like, how to ask questions, how to work independently and to present results and interpret them. Um, and that's good skills, I think, for the workplace.
P29: Good, thanks.M. I'm a junior at mit. I'm majoring in biological engineering. I play for the university women's volleyball team at mit And I'm also fairly involved in my sorority Alpha fee. I'm the vice president of chapter operations, so I'm pretty involved in our house maintenance and things like that.I think my most active role in leadership would be within my sorority. It's my job to make sure that everything's operating smoothly. So that includes coordinating with our chef, like that meals are working, that all our facilities and cleaning our washers and our dryers and everything are up and running. We've had, like, issues with refrigerator. Last year, when the power went off, there was, like, a lot of issues with that that we had to kind of adjust, I think, being able to maintain calm and make sure that everything is dealt with in a timely and, uh, efficient manner.How did you solve that problem? Um, so the obvious team choice would be my volleyball team. Um, and we actually get along pretty well, so there's not too many conflicts. But I think as silly as it sounds, one of the things is what we eat after meals or after games. Um, and so I think it's kind of nice. Sometimes I'll just speak with one or two players and we'll kind of come to a consensus before we really discuss with the team what we're doing after games. And so that way, I kind of get a feel like amongst the three or four of us, what the team would be most receptive to. Something like that. And so then we kind of come to consensus, like, this is what we're going to do instead of opening up to the entire team, like, what would you like to do after the game? You know, 16 different opinions and having to deal with that, getting, like, a small set of, like, you know, options. And you have some people with dietary restrictions, things like that. So, um, I think that way it's just being able to get a couple different opinions, come to a conclusion before, uh, making a decision. Pretty successful.One of my weaknesses might be, uh, maybe voicing my opinion all the time. Sometimes if I'm in a group with a lot of loud personalities, I might have, um, an opinion on a matter, but not always want to voice it or not voice it in the most, I won't, um, word my feelings in the best way or be able to convey exactly my emotions. Um, so I think working to do that, and I think just through getting more leadership exposure and really pushing myself to get out there, has been helping me overcome that. I think that from freshman to now, junior year, that it definitely by taking more leadership roles on, I've been able to become a more vocal person to kind of, like, express my concerns.I think you should hire me because I. I think I have a lot of, um, skills. Based on my academic performances, I would have Good. But also more I feel like I work well with others. I'm able to take initiative. And if there's ever some sort of concern, I've never had a problem with people coming to me to discuss it. I think I'm good at recognizing problems early before they get to, uh, come to a big problem, um, and kind of address them in a very professional manner that makes the home kind of go over smoothly. Great.How are you doing today?Tell me more about your background.Okay. Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.If you consider yourself a team player, can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve?Sorry, could you say conflict in your team?You're given an option to change one thing about yourself.And why do you think you should get the job?Great.
P30: Pretty well. Good. How are you? Good.I'm Nikki. I'm a Course 6 major at MITM Junior this year. I live in East Campus. You also lived here.I was in apo. I was the Fellowship vice president for term. Okay, which one is responsible for organizing activities for the. Basically, it's split into three sections. There's Fellowship leadership and service. As I'm writing, was organizing events that helped to foster friendship, among others.So we had this problem project a few weeks ago, and one of our groupmates did the whole thing.Yeah.So. So we, the other two of us, we talked among ourselves to figure out, like, what had happened. Exactly, because both of us had just kind of gotten screenwriter really quickly.And then we arranged a meeting with the TA to go and see if we could work out a solution. And in the end, it worked out okay. It wasn't the best, obviously, because we hadn't gotten to do the work, but we solved it. Good. I haven't had this kind of interview in forever. I'm sure. I'm going to ask you to code.I'm really quiet.I just speak really quietly. And it's because in my head, it sounds louder than I guess it is. And so I work on it. I try to project and all that. I ask people to tell me if I'm being too quiet because I can't tell myself it's a real problem, though.For what? Uh, because I learn really quickly.I bring a very positive attitude to the job. I like to have fun with what I do, and I work hard at it, and I don't want to look at it all in.I'm pretty good.Um, I'm a student of computer science at emitates my junior year. I've been studying it pretty much the whole time, but decided pretty early on that's what I wanted to do. I had an internship last summer in the field. I was at a startup in Venice Beach, California and I enjoyed it quite a bit.Let's get back into that sort of thing.Tell me why I think that I can be a leader. I'm not. I'm definitely not someone who needs to lead. I am perfectly happy to, you know, play a little bit more supportive role because I know in my experience as especially here, there are plenty of people who really like to lead and leaders are not needed. That said, if there's something that needs to be done and nobody's stepping up to do it, that is something that I can and will and have done.I would absolutely consider myself a team player. I care more about people than basically everything else. Um, I'm sorry, I'm trying to think of a new story, uh, maybe a.So to be honest, I haven't experienced really major conflicts in general. I think that, honestly I think it's easy to prevent them to begin with. Like, I do my best to keep open channels of communication. I think that most of the time that you can't have a disaster happen if you're talking about it the whole time. There can be minor disagreements, but they never really turn into big conflicts.That'D be smarter? Um, yeah, I mean, like, obviously. But, um, more specifically, I think I would like to have a little bit more, A, um, little bit better capability to understand those sides of things. Sorry, that sounds really weird. In general, I do. But for computer science specifically or for like, science specifically, there's the part that I'm really good at, which is everything that has to do with languages and the puzzle solving. That's great and that's fun and I like it a lot. But then there's also the side that's a little bit more mathematical and that's something that I struggle more with and I would really like. They're definitely different things. People are typically good at either one or the other, but being good at both is.It's a little bit less common, and that would be really awesome.Because I think that I will do a great job for you guys. I care a lot about my work, especially when it affects other people. And I really like what this company is doing. It's something that I really believe and I want to be a part of.
P31: Good.Ready? Yep.Uh, well, I'm a junior. I'm an MIT student. Um, I'm majoring in both math and computer science. Ah. What sort of skills and interests are you looking to find out about?Cool. Well, I'm really interested in distributed systems actually. Um, and that's more as a research interest. Um, and the sort of application that it generally tends to have when I look at companies is, uh, parallel computing. Um, I actually did an internship last summer with Amazon and uh, for them I ended up doing a lot of parallel computing with the Hadoop platform. Um, I'm also taking 6172, which is a performance engineering class, and we do a lot of parallelism in C.Well, uh, this was in high school. But in high school I was the uh, uh, president of my robotics team as well as the, uh, in the earlier years, the head of, respectively, the uh, mechanical engineering team and um, our mechanical arm team. Uh, and you know, that was a good leadership experience. Um, I've also been in. In 6172 we have group projects. There are only two people. But um, in some of the projects I've been sort of the person doing a lot of the organizing. Uh, yeah.Are you more interested in a technical challenge or like in working with people? Challenge.Okay, well, um, in my. In 6172, the class I'm taking right now, I, uh, was working with Jason. He is a friend of mine, and we were both uh, working on the first project and we were trying to improve our speed in order to get up to the benchmark for like, good fastness, um, of improvement. And we had to prioritize different choices in terms of what might actually speed up, um, our code by approximately 500 fold. Um, yeah, it was pretty intense. Um, and we as such sort of had to try and parallelize the work. And it was pretty hard because the code, like merging two code documents is never fun. And there was really only one document we were working on. Um, what ended up happening is that I spent most of the time driving, which is say coding him, watching and verifying my algorithm. Um, but it was stressful because we were getting close to the deadline and if we didn't finish this optimization we'd have to turn in an old version which was only 10 times faster as opposed to 500 times faster. We ended up getting it not 500 times faster but uh, 100 times faster. So, um, I was quite pleased. But like working with him is sort of both working on the strategies of uh, how to fix the technical problem as fast as possible, given that we had two people's worth of man hours, but only like n actual hours. Um, and thinking about solutions to that technical problem was sort of interesting. Okay, great.Uh, I, uh, when I get stressed, tend to get a little snippy with people I'm working with. Um, I think it is not uncommon. Um, but definitely when I'm, especially when I'm tired, it's like 4am in the morning and I'm working with people, uh, when they're trying to explain something to me or I'm trying to explain something to them. There's like inherent overhead and that can be very frustrating and it causes me to be short with people when they're trying to explain things with me or I'm explaining it with them. Uh, and it's something I'm working on because it doesn't actually make communication any more effective. It just makes everyone unhappy. Um, so there's a couple of things. One is that like, I have to stay up working late on things and so like I inevitably get practice working at not being sniffy, um, but also like having recognized that this is something that I do and something that is not effective for communication. Uh, I have been trying to pay attention to, um, you know, my tone of voice, my friendliness and I've been trying to like take the approach that when I do have to communicate in these situations to optimize by minimizing the communication needed and by being expressively relaxed during the periods of communication. Because even if I need to be working hard and sort of stressing out about the work, the communication portion doesn't need to take up much time. And so if it takes twice as long, it doesn't actually matter because that's not the time you need to optimize. Great.Um, I think you should hire me because I'm technically qualified. Uh, I get along well with people. Um, I am interested in these fields. I'm excited about computer science. It's what I want to do. A large part of who I am is the math and computer science part of me. Um, as a result, I'm going to enjoy work and enjoy working with people. Um, also, the people I spend my time with outside of work will tend to be very similar kinds of people to the kinds of people I'll be interacting with at work. And so it tends to work out pretty well. Um, in my previous internship with Amazon, uh, my team liked me a lot because I'm pretty laid back and enjoy joking around with people, bake food, you know, So I. Yeah, you know, I will solve your technical problems and I'll get along with the team.
P32: So how are you doing today?Good. Tell me about yourself.And can you tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership?Tell me about a time you were working on a team and faced a challenge. How did you solve that problem?Great. Tell me about one of your weaknesses.Great. And last question. Why do you think we should hire you?
P33: I'm pretty good. The weather's nice.Okay, so I'm a junior, right?I'm a junior at mit. Going to graduate a semester early actually. So I'm going to be graduating after next fall, um, because I've been doing my work pretty quickly I guess. So I can graduate with uh, early. That's a good thing. Um, I'm interested in going into nutrition in the long run, uh, whether it be through medical school or even as a certification, whatever. But in the meantime I want to get into life sciences consulting and I want to um, explore the field and uh, do as much as I can, pretty much as long as I can in the field, um, being successful, uh, and getting somewhere. So. Yeah.Okay, so I'm president of the MIT Armenian Society. And last year we organized a networking event so uh, that comprised of not only students but also like working professionals in the Boston area. So basically I got in touch with and invited every single Armenian that I knew in the Boston area. And it ended up being 100 plus event that we actually coordinated, uh, in uh, one of the dorms here at Bexley Hall. So it was also like a lot of logistical practice, like getting over the, getting around the rules and stuff, um, with capacity and everything and whether or not to serve alcohol and all that stuff. So that was a very big event and uh, it was very successfully done because people are still talking about it today. So good job. Thank you.Okay, so I'm also involved in the MIT Undergraduate Research Journal and last uh, spring we publish uh, twice a year at the end of each semester. And last spring we were a little late in uh, our uh, timeline. So it was coming year finals week and we still hadn't gotten anything published. So um, sorry, this was last fall, so we still had the spring semester to um, sort of remediate our error. So um, we kind of all, you know, pitched in together and I guess the main thing that we had to um, draw upon was each other's initiative like in the whole process and motivation and you know, know, motivation, like it, you know, for some people it's like more self centered and for others it's more like a community kind of motivation, you know, and we had to tap into each of our individual editors motivation, you know, what kind of people they were, what they were looking for, etc. So we had to um, really get people like having to have initiative. You know, we had to get people like sort of self started in a way. And uh, uh, yeah, and we got to work really quickly. Uh, and uh, we had a published by like the first two weeks of the spring semester. So um. Yeah, yeah, it was a good, it was a good skill I think that I picked up with like how to tap into people's like, you know, sense of initiative and stuff. Yeah.Yeah. So one of my weaknesses I think is um, like shyness, you know, Um, I may seem a little bit like confident, you know, on the outside, but I definitely have my moments where I'm like, you know, I just freeze and I feel like so, you know, like I can't talk to anyone pretty much, you know, and it's like, it's like maybe 10% of the time that I'm like that. But um, I kind of want to like get rid of that completely. So. Yeah, I'm just. I'm. I'm doing uh. I'm like putting myself into more like challenging situations socially and stuff to kind of overcome it. So. So, um. Yeah, just like, you know, taking advantage of every opportunity that comes my way. Like social and stuff, like going to parties and stuff. Just being used to being around people. Because definitely at MIT you can definitely become like, socially, uh, you know, like blocked away. So. Yeah.Yeah.Um, so I draw upon a lot of leadership experiences, you know, with my uh, enrollment in MIT student groups. M. I've completed three years of MIT without going insane. That's just a joke. But, um, um. And I'm very, you know, like, uh. I'm very organized. I'm a self starter. I'm, you know, I take initiative. I've organized all a, uh, lot of events through these student groups. So I'm um. I'm definitely able to take upon like large tasks with being organized and being like, you know, very like having initiative. So yeah.Good. How are you?Tell me more about your background. So, my background is, um, primarily in energy work. Um, so I'm a chemical engineering student, and I'm very interested in not only alternative energy, but the optimization of our traditional energy resources. Um, so that's where my, um, background in oil and gas kind of comes in. Uh, but also some of my research interests or, you know, kind of scientific ideas.I definitely think I am. Um, partially because even when I'm not the designated leader, somehow it turns into me leading the team or the initiative. But I really enjoy that. I, um, think that, uh, one of the most satisfying feelings is having your team tell you that you're doing a great job or that they think that, um, that success can be highly attributed to you. So in terms of, um, my leadership style, I definitely always want to bring out the strengths of all the team members. So I think that's really how my position as a leader works, is that I try to figure out what could maximize the potential of this team member or that team member. And how can we bring all of those.Um, yeah. So I definitely consider myself a team player. Um, I think it's tough to be a good leader without being a good team player. Um, but one instance where I was both the leader but really also a team player was, um, in Society of Women Engineers banquet. Um, so when we planned, it was. I'm the vice president of corporate relations, and I have six people who, um, work with me. And we plan a banquet for about 200 people, both company representatives and students. Um, it's a very collaborative effort. I may be the vp, but we're all pulling a lot of weight. And so during the actual event, we had four company representatives from two different companies show up to the event without RSVP or anything. Um, it was. The selection for the companies was pretty extensive, and selection for the students was pretty extensive. So what we were trying to do was get a good range of industries and then match students with their interests. Um, so it's not really something where you can be like, oh, yeah, sit right down. Um, but so in terms of being a team player, they approached one of the other members of the team. She didn't really know what to do. Um, kind of bounced it to a few other different people. But I knew that that wasn't something that would look good. So I definitely helped, you know, helped her out, out of that awkward situation and kind of took, you know, took the blame on myself essentially because these representatives were pretty angry that, oh, you don't have our name tags, you don't have our seats, like, what's going on? Uh, and so I, you know, part of being a team player I think is knowing when it's best to take the blame on yourself. And in the end we found places for them to sit. So we had some no show students, you know, among like a hundred whatever students, you definitely have people who don't show up. So we didn't get to sit with like exactly the right students or anything. But we found them place and fed them dinner. So that helped.I wish I was more patient. Um, I think I, a lot of times am very eager to start the task. Um, this especially comes out, uh, we're in a lab group right now, uh, or I'm in a lab class and I work with a lab group, um, in that class. And we all kind of have this trait of, uh, oh, as soon as the chemicals are out on the bench, oh, let's mix this, let's do this, let's do this. But a lot of times we end up finishing a little bit later than other groups because we have to, we problem solve, we get all the problems, um, first. You know, other people haven't necessarily tried this, didn't find that, oh, this doesn't work at all. You actually have to do it this other way. So we face all those hurdles first. Whereas if we had, if we could take a few minutes, wait, think it out, um, maybe let somebody else try something first for a change, um, I think that could help us be more effective. Um, and I think in other situations too, it's kind of strategic and advantageous to wait. But um, it's sometimes hard for me to see those opportunities. So I definitely, that's definitely something that I've been working on. It's, you know, when is that also a viable option to just sit back for, you know, a few days and think about it and why do you.I think that I would bring a great deal of enthusiasm in addition to the skills and background that I have. I think that I'm so excited for the work that your company is doing and to kind of play off the other members of the team as well. Um, so not just stick to my own project, but also be contributing to the other projects that are going on and try to find synergies within our team.
P34: I'm doing pretty well.Late at night. Yeah.Um, so I'm a junior in course two at mit. I just started course two last semester. But I got very interested in product design when I took a class called Toy Product Design. It was really cool because we got to work in small teams to make our own projects. So ours was a toy called Comic Control. And my main role is to do a lot of the SolidWorks things, so a lot of the CAD and 3D modeling so that we could make the physical components that didn't already exist. And I really enjoyed that because it's kind of an intersection between design like art and engineering, which I never really thought of until last year. Um, outside of classes, I tried to do a lot of design work as well. Maybe in somewhat different fields. Like I work for the tech as a production editor.Yeah, so it's a lot of making infographics and um, laying out the entire newspaper, making it look really pretty. So it's kind of a good break from equations and things like that. Alright.M. I think a very recent example is I am philanthropy chair of my sorority. So we just held an event called Catwalk and it took 10 months of planning. Um, um, but it took a lot of delegation, a lot of staying on top of things because there are so many components we needed to coordinate. We ended up having 14 designers, but we had to contact way more than that. Um, um, from around the Boston area. And the sorority has 140 girls in it, so all of them have to participate in some way, whether it's working with a designer or helping me to create the decoration scheme or working with a. Um. And I personally think it ran really smoothly as a result of extreme organization. I had a co chair and another girl helping me organize it and we got very good at creating tabs on Google Docs to set up things.How did you solve that problem? Um, so if I may, I'll go back to toy product design because I think that was a really good example. I think all of us were. It was a team of three freshmen and two sophomores. None of us had that much experience with product design at all. So we were all bringing different skills to the table, um, and different ideas, different preferences and visions for what we wanted to do. And they clashed a lot. In the beginning. Um, it was really difficult for us. Like our personalities clashed. As well, not just our ideas, which was uh, really difficult to work with because meetings were unproductive and uh, um, we just felt like we weren't moving anywhere because other teams were moving forward with their ideas, prototyping and things. And we were still arguing over what design would be most feasible or most interesting. So we worked through that by M. We worked with our mentors, um, talking to them as kind of a mediator. So for this it wasn't a completely uh, self motivated resolution or self initiated, I don't know how to describe it, um, but it ended up working out. We all kind of slowed down, took a step back and saw from each other's perspectives, um, talked out very explicitly what the pluses and minuses of each idea were, um, and what our um, goals were. Given the constraints of the class being that we had a $200 budget, uh, and just a semester to complete it and at this point a month left to complete it in um, and in the end we just recognized each other's strengths so that we could each take responsibility for a certain component of the toy, um, and figure out a way to just meld them all together into the final product. Um, and we did. By the end we had something that we were really proud of. A lot of teams ended up relying a lot on their mentors to kind of do the project for them. Um, but because we each wanted to take so much ownership of the project, it was very much our own and we were able to present it on the final day and something that was very rewarding.Your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it? Um, I think one of my weaknesses is my. Oh, I forget what it's called. Oh, lack of assertiveness or, um, lack of confidence in a way. Um, like I always want to make sure that everyone's ideas are heard and I feel like lots of times I don't want to create conflict so I'll kind of back down after a little bit. Um, I'm very open to sharing my ideas but if there's a lot of criticism then I will back down. And that's something that I'm working on a lot. Just trying to stand behind my own ideas, um, trying to be much more objective about them so that I have reasons to present so that I don't feel like there's any reason for me need to backtrack, if that makes sense.I think you should hire me because I am very passionate about product design. Um, I feel like it's something that people told me when I started mechanical engineering last semester. They were like oh you just lit up and I can see that you found your passion here. I feel like I'm very detail oriented so uh m. I'm able to create CAD models in a very methodical manner. Instead of just drawing random things together. Um, I'm able to think about design for manufacturing overall. Um, and not just what looks nice on paper but what's actually practical. Um, I think I am a great team player even though I can be passive sometimes. Um, in a way it's good to have people with different levels of aggressiveness at different levels of um confidence because that way it's not all butting heads all the time. And I think that as I improve in my own confidence it will come to a level where um, I'm able to work smoothly and not confrontationally with people um, but also get things done very effectively.Doing pretty good. Good.So, I am, um, a, uh, mechanical engineer at mit. I'm a junior, and I'm really interested in product design. So I've been taking a lot of classes in design and manufacturing, and it's something I've really fallen in love with. Last semester especially, I took this class called Toy Product Design, and it really got me introduced to SolidWorks and using machine tools. And it's something that I'd love to do for the rest of my life in a professional fashion.Tell me why. Um, I would say that I am. I do enjoy being in a position where I can really guide a group towards some direction. So this past year, I was philanthropy chair of my sorority, and we put on this big event called Catwalk. It's this charity fashion show. Um, and it's so much fun, but it took 10 months of planning and, yeah, coordination between, uh, throughout the entire sorority, which has 140 girls in it. Everyone had to play a role. So it's really difficult sometimes because people aren't really sure what's going on. There's a lot of miscommunication of things. Um, but I feel like it ran really smoothly, uh, because I had two co chairs. Um, and we all really worked together to keep things very organized, um, very regimented, to keep after people. Especially over the summer when everyone's all over the country, all over the world, and you just have to keep emailing them, calling them if you can, um, checking up on them, but finding a balance. You have to learn to trust the people that are under you. Right. Um, but just make sure they have a good idea of what's going on, and they feel like they're playing an important role because they are. Um, so it actually happened two weeks ago. The event, it was so much fun. It was a little bit stressful. As we got closer to the event, things go wrong, things go missing. Um, but I feel like I was able to stay very calm and just help people find alternatives if they. If, I don't know, a rehearsal time didn't work or a designer wasn't showing up. It was just best to find a very efficient, logical way to proceed.I would say that I am a team player. Um, again, even in a leadership role, you're not just the one person doing it. Um, I would say that being a team player, I applied to Catwalk as well, but for a different example, perhaps, um, I might return to toy product design, where we had to work in a smaller team of about. There were five students and then two mentors. M. Um, and we all came from different backgrounds. None of us knew each other beforehand. We all had very different skill sets and very, very different personalities. Um, so in the beginning especially, we all had ideas that really clashed. And for the class, in a way, that was good, because then you could come up with all these different ideas, and it was great. But then when it came down to deciding on one or figuring out how you wanted to move forward, who would take on which responsibilities, it was, um, quite tense for our team, I would say. Um, so as the oldest two on the team, um, myself and one other teammate, we. I feel like we really stepped it up in terms of being, uh, very methodical and very, uh, fair, I guess, in the way that we tried to distribute things and when things got too heated. M. I feel like I especially served as kind of a mediator, calming people down and just having them think about what's practical. What are you actually able to get done? What do you want to get done? Because you want to make sure that people work on things that they're passionate about so they can do the best work. I feel like that's just really a role that I play in a lot of team situations, helping our team to find a balance so that we can work together most effectively.Um, maybe I would definitely try to raise my own confidence level, um, or my ability to be more assertive. I think that when I'm in a team situation where there are very strong personalities, I tend to. I don't mind sharing my ideas, but then as soon as I do, if I receive, like, a lot of criticism or some sort of opposition, I'll tend to back down and just kind of let it go and move forward on something else. But then sometimes those ideas, they turn out to be good ones in the end, and it's just like we kind of waste of time. Um, if only I had more solid arguments to go off of. So I try to do a lot more planning on my own time so that I do have a solid foundation to go off of. I don't get scared or feel like the ideas I've come up with are worthless and I can't defend them.I think I should get the job because this position just sounds so ideal for me. Um, it seems like a place like a very collaborative environment where I can really call on different uh, team members in the office itself to just help me further my own ideas. And I have a lot of room for creative freedom in this product design position because from what I found out through uh, research and talking to interviewers or company members is just that we're often given a challenge. It's very dynamic. There's always problems to be solved and things to innovate on and they basically just say go do it. And I think that's really exciting to me because I don't, I'm not a big fan of just doing things very rotely like here's how I want you to do it. Um, just like build exactly what these directions tell you to do. Um, not quite what I'm looking for. So I think this company um, this position just really, really excites me.
P35: So how are you doing today?Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?Great. So tell me by the time you demonstrated leadership.So tell me about the time you were working on a team and face a challenge. How did you solve that problem?Can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it?And what are you doing to overcome it?Excellent. Why do you think we should hire you?
P37: Pretty well. How are you?Um, I am a junior in course 18, which is applied math, obviously go to MIT. M. I'm, um, also probably going to major in management science, um, as well as I'm really interested in minoring in economics. Um, outside of academics, I do a lot of sports. I play water polo. I rock climb a lot. Um, I run and bike a lot. And, um, I'm involved in lots of random clubs at mit, so I like to keep busy.Um, well, I've been swimming. Well, I was a varsity swimmer in high school as well as college, so I Swam competitively for 15 years. Um, so I was the captain of my high school swim team as well as my summer club swim team. Um, leadership wise, I guess the summer swim team was probably where I felt like I had the most influential leadership position, um, just because I was on the same team for 14 years. Um, and so I really got to develop my relationships with all of the younger swimmers, um, even before I was an official captain position.Oh. Um, so I did a lot of, uh, uh, coaching of younger kids, um, a lot of team management type stuff. As in like setting up events, setting up, um, meets, helping meets, and everything run smoothly, um, as well as just leading cheers and helping people stay focused and organized at practices.Well, so I was on the financial metrics team in my internship last summer, which was basically just the quantitative analysis team. Um, and so we had a problem in one of our quantitative analysis programs that was running, um, and no one really knew where it was coming from. So as a team, we, uh, divide and conquer, broke down individual sections of the program to look at and correlated, uh, those with each person's expertise. So I analyzed mainly the R portion, whereas, um, my teammate, my co worker, analyzed mainly the MySQL portion of the code and broke it up that way, I guess.Yeah, eventually.With help from the finance expert.I'd say one of my weaknesses is that I don't always push myself hard enough. Um, as far as academically, um, I like to be challenged, but I don't always seek those out. Um, so to try to overcome that, I have done a lot of searching through the MIT courseware to, um, find classes that look interesting as well as challenging, um, and try to sign up for a lot of classes that are outside of just the minimum major requirements so that I could get a bit more of a challenge instead of just doing the bare minimum.Um, because I'm a very fast learner. I'm dedicated, and I know how to work hard because it's something I've done for my entire life. And, uh, I like being busy and I like working hard. So if I'm given a task, I'll work hard until it's done well.A little cold? No, pretty well. How about you?I'm doing well.So I have some quantitative, um, and analytical experience, um, from quant work on the financial metrics team last summer. In terms of work experience and then in terms of academic experience. I am an applied math major, probably. I'm a double major with course 15, which is management. Um, so I've taken a lot of probability statistics type classes.Um, I feel that I'm a leader, uh, mainly because when I take leadership positions, um, I can be very effective at guiding whatever group it is towards our goal, whether it's, you know, a team in class on a research project. Even if there isn't like, an assigned leadership role, I usually end up organizing things, motivating people and stuff like that. So I do feel like I am a m. Bit of a natural leader in that sense.Um, well, I was a competitive swimmer for 15 years, pretty much my whole life. Um, and so I had a lot of different experiences on swim teams, um, especially, uh, at mit. I did varsity swimming for two years. So, um, especially on my relay team. There's only four slots on the relay, and we're usually pretty competitive at the national level. So last year we had a lot of conflict because one of my best friends really wanted to be on the relay. But then, you know, she's getting beat out by other swimmers and there's all sorts of drama and fighting over that. Um, and it put me in a tough position just because it was my best friend. But then it was also, you know, you want to put together the fastest relay to be competitive. Um, so I really just did my best to stay out of it and let the coaches deal with it. But, um, I did learn a lot about how to interact with different people on all sides of the situation because I still had to get along well with all my teammates, but at the same time, like, support my best friend and try to help her.I think I would like to be better at asking for help. Um, not that I necessarily needed a lot, but I think it would be useful for me to branch out and learn more from different people. So I'm really interested in math and management, so I get really into those types of classes. And I guess I wish I would branch out a little bit more, um, into different areas because I could learn from people there. So I am trying to take some different classes now that I'm done with all of my math requirements and stuff like that, but that's probably going to change.Um, I think I should get the job because I'm really qualified. Um, I have the quant experience as well as some of the finance background. Um, I'm also just a hard worker and I'm really excited to learn more in the job. And since it is such a learning externship, I, um, think I could really thrive in that environment. Great.
P42: Um, so I'm a Jr. At MIT. M. I'm in aerospace engineering. Um, I'm thinking of doing more of the aeronautic side rather than the astronautic side. But I don't have to decide until later. Um, I'm in ROTC and in the Air Force portion. I'm hoping to become a pilot. I applied pretty recently and I'll find out maybe in February or March of next year. I'm also in Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Our house is on BU's campus across the river, and I've been living there since I was a sophomore. That's basically me.So probably the biggest chance I got to demonstrate leadership so far in my life has been this past summer when I went to pretty much ROTC's version of Bootcamp. It's called field training, and it's about a month long and it's in Alabama. And it's pretty much a test to see what you do in really stressful situations. So, uh, they give us pretty big things like we have to be in charge of 40 or 50 people and we have to make sure that they got to this place at the right time and then do I guess the correct action when we get there and make sure that nobody's going astray or making sure that all of the obstacles that the instructors set up, ah, we can overcome them. So being in charge of people for a good two or three days when everything is just so high stress is probably the most challenging leadership experience I've ever had.Um, to give I guess a non ROTC related example, um, as we have a decent amount of projects in, um, core 16, like Unified is very project based in the second semester. And one of the biggest problems we had in our specific group was the way that, um, I guess the work was being allocated. So at first it was supposed to be, um, very evenly divided. So each person on the four person team would do a quarter of the work. But, um, some people started doing a little bit less and some people started doing a little bit more. By the middle of the semester it was very unequal. So it was kind of getting under everyone's skin. So as a group, after we, um, realized that it just wouldn't, it was really a detriment to our productivity, we all had a group meeting and said, listen, this is what we have to do. We have to reallocate the certain things that are the parts of the project that we wanted to originally. And, um, it just kind of went astray. So we did that, and it became a lot better.Um, working on a team, faced with a challenge. I can think of, um, trying to not hit the same categories over. So, um, in sae, in the fraternity that I'm in last semester, I was the recruitment chair. So the job for the recruitment chair is essentially to plan rush. Like, plan our events for cpw, plan our events for fall rush, plan our events for spring rush for a full calendar year or for a full school year. Excuse me. Um, and the question was challenges in a group. Right.So challenges and teamwork. So rush is very team oriented because you're trying to work with your brothers to really see, I guess, which freshmen, ah, are the most compatible with your fraternity and that you probably have the best time with. So the way I set it up was we actually did work in small teams, about four or five brothers, and we'd go out and do fun things and meet freshmen. I would say the biggest problem with that during rush is that some teams were a lot more active than others. And the team that I was in, uh, was a little bit less active. And of course, as being rush chair, I didn't want that to be the case. I wanted to change that, especially in situations where you don't have, um, you don't have, like, hard given, not given powers, but, like, outline powers. Like, you're not someone's boss. You're just like another brother in the fraternity. Um, the best kind of way to convince people to do something that you want to do is through positive motivation. So that's what I ended up using a lot for while I was rush chair, to get people to go out. So it was all always, like, being very excited to do it and knowing that you're passionate about it and telling them and having them realize, uh, that, oh, this is a really good thing that we should be doing and it'll really help us out and it'll be fun. So that's how I solved that problem.So my greatest weakness normally would probably have to think a lot more about, but um, I actually had a similar conversation with um, one of my bosses in ROTC about a month and a half ago. So I would say my greatest weakness is when I get put in really stressful situations. I will tend to jump to a decision or conclusion too quickly and won't necessarily think about or I won't think through the whole process, um, like to fruition. I'll kind of like hurry up and want to get to something. So um, the situation can be I guess, resolved. So what I'm working on is just being able to like even in a stressful situation and I know there's a problem to kind of slow down and take a step back and really look at things kind of from a, uh, higher altitude.I am a really hard worker. I absolutely will devote myself to um, this company. I, I think as a team member I'm very cooperative. Uh, if the goal that we have as a team, if I agree with it and for the most part I will, and if I won't, then I'll voice express like if I voice my concerns and try to make it something that everyone can agree on and if I agree on it, um, then I am or I'll definitely be able to participate in the team in a very productive manner. I'll be a very good follower and um, if it's needed, I can be a very good leader as well.Alright, so.My background is I grew up in Japan and wanted to go to MIT to study aerospace engineering. Wanted to fly for a very long time. Now I am in Sigma Alpha Epsilon, a fraternity on campus. And I'm also a member of Air Force rotc.Tell me why I do think I'm a leader. I have had many opportunities to lead, um, both in a range of environments where it's pure leadership, and also in areas where it's very clear that I'm m the one in charge and that, uh, people should be listening to me. And I've also had a good amount of theoretical education on this, and most of those opportunities and the education has been through rotc. But I've also had a decent amount of chances to lead through things like student government in high school and through my fraternity in college.I do think I'm a team player. I like to be on a part of a team where the mission is something that I agree with. And if I am, then I'll work my absolute hardest and try to make sacrifices for the team. In terms of a team that had conflict that I was a part of. Let me think of some examples I didn't use the first time. Might have to go back to high school. Um, so student government was a really big thing for me in high school. It was probably my favorite activity, my favorite non athletic activity that I did. And it was a little bit difficult to get participation, especially during busier times for school, because people would have so many other commitments to go to. So in some of the committees that we had inside, um, student government, junior senior year, there would just be not enough people for even a quorum to be reached. So the way I tried to change that was just making the events we do more fun and having people specifically agree on those things that were on the committee beforehand. So then we knew that everybody had kind of an investment in them.One thing about myself? Well, kind of as a joke right now, one thing. Definitely have a leg that's healed. Um, but sorry to hear that.Personality traits are something of that nature. I think I could be a little bit more, not a little bit, a decently um, decent. More. A decent amount more agreeable. Sometimes I certainly can have an opinion on a stance and once it's developed, it's quite hard to change. And I can dig my heels in when someone's kind of trying to argue the converse. So if I could be just a little more open minded and certainly more agreeable, I think that would help me out in the long run.I think that I should be able to get this job because I have a lot to contribute to the company. I learned so much in my undergrad and I've just been wanting to apply that to a tough problem that has real repercussions, uh, to the general public. And I've learned a lot of theoretical knowledge on how to solve these problems. I've also learned a lot of practical things by being in projects and working in groups and learning how to handle a range or, uh, a multitude of different dynamics. If the team is working towards a goal, which I agree on, and in this company it certainly is, I'll put absolutely 100% of effort into it and work late and really try to get that goal. Um, or really try to work towards that goal.
P43: Sure. So I'm a management computer science double major at mit. I worked in the product tech and business space before, um, doing both, uh, front end web development, for example at NextJump, and product management, for example at Deutsche Bahn, the German Railway and Disney parks and resorts online.Sure, I think I am. One example of that is I'm the president of Baker House. It's a dorm at MIT and as part of that there's about 20 members of the executive committee, um, and we run, uh, events during the year, have about a $50,000 budget, um, so making sure all those run smoothly, um, that there aren't conflicts between members of the team, that the, um, other business of Baker House gets done and gets done in an efficient way and in a way that's good for the residents that are there.Sure. So this past summer at Disney, uh, we had a challenge once with the time zones, uh, and how they would be, uh, how the app would be able to use time zones. So we, uh, spent some time to get everyone on the phone together in a conference call and talked about, um, what the app would have to do in order to support time zones.Sure. I think the one thing that I, um, you know, maybe it's a false sort of sense of what, um, of something. But, you know, at mit, it always seems like some people get the answers to the question much faster than I do. And that's probably just their particular field that they're good in. But some magical way of being able to do that that would be good.Do you want to mind?Absolutely. Um, I think it's something that I've certainly done before. It's something that I'm able to pick up quickly and really, uh, customize it to this particular company. Um, and I think that there's few other candidates that have had this breadth of experience that I've had.No problem.
P44: Okay. My name's Evan Edmore. I'm a junior here at MIT in Computer science. Originally from Louisville, Kentucky. Yeah, I currently live across the river, Germany. Heard about this study through email, so decided to check it out.You did humanity. Nice.A leader? Uh, sure. A good example of that would be, uh, some of my extracurricular work activities. Um, so I'm involved in, uh, two activities in general that showcase my leadership skills. One is, uh, Camp Kessel. Mit. It's a student organization here on campus, um, at mit. Each summer, the organization puts a summer camp for children whose parents have or have had cancer. Um, and I serve on the coordinator board for this organization. In the past, I was in charge of handling applications and contacting families of campers who would come to our camp and being in contact with them throughout the year, sending them newsletters, sending them updates, planning reunions for them. Uh, this year I am in charge of actually the students on campus and getting students to apply to become counselors for our camp and being a liaison, um, with students. So I work, um, as a coordinator. I usually have a co coordinator and we usually work in tandem. Um, the other activity is dance troupe, another student organization here at MIT where we put on a show each year. Just like a dance, you know, have some fun, uh, on the dance show. And, uh, I'm a choreographer for that organization, so I lead a dance, um, and teach people, um, some dance moves to perform.Thanks.Sure. Um, I think a great example of that would be this past January, um, I participated in a web design competition here on campus. 6,000, 470. I was on a team with, um, my girlfriend and a, um, mutual friend of ours. But it's always different working in the group with, uh, friends as opposed to just hanging out with them. And there was a bit of conflict, um, about how we wanted the website to go. And we had different visions for how we wanted the website to look. And I think for me, the best way for that I handled that was to sort of be willing to compromise, I think is a very, very important skill. And also just listening, active listening. Um, I was listening to why she wanted to make certain changes to the website. And by doing that, I was able to, uh, figure out, uh, sort of like a common ground. That we could work towards that. I think we eventually did hit M and uh, we're able to move forward with um. It's one conflict I definitely, uh, remember because it was pretty big at the time, but I think we needed to get through it.Okay. Uh, I'd say my. One of my bigger weaknesses is uh, I'd say probably, uh, self starting actually. It's something that I've been working. It's like my, my goal for this year to work on. In the past, you know, I would take, do my classes, take my classes and really uh, just kind of, you know, do my scribulars, but nothing really outside of uh, classes. And if there's one thing I've learned from being around all these amazing people here at MIT is that like, if you have an idea, just go for it. It's very easy. Especially here there's resources to do so. M. It's something that I want to work on. I've had some ideas for projects I want to start on my own and it's always been an issue for me to actually get started on things. I come up with ideas and really to get started on certain projects. But this starting in iap, I plan on starting creating my own website and doing some ideas with that and hopefully that will gain some more experience in computer science.I think the. One of my best qualities is ability to learn quickly. Coming to mit, for example. M I came to MIT with very little experience in the field of computer science. Many of my past internships have been thrown into fields where I did not have much experience. But I pride myself on the ability to sort of grasp ideas quickly and build on top of those and use those to build solutions to problems. I find that after, you know, viewing some examples of a certain problem or just playing around with it for a little bit, I can get to work on using that sort of maybe technology or so. In the past couple of internships I've had to deal with new languages, new frameworks, and I think that it definitely more than compensates for any experience I may be lacking in certain technologies.No problem. Thank you for having me. Of course.Sure. Um, sorry. M. I am a junior in computer science here at MIT from Louisville, Kentucky. Particularly interested in uh, consumer facing uh, products, front end development. I've had some experience doing both web development and some um, internal metrics testing QA types of jobs. That's a little bit about my technical background.Tell me why I do think I'm a leader. I think one of the biggest qualities a leader needs to have is dealing with people. People skills are very important. I've been involved in many situations that involve both. Conflict resolution with people, involve organizing people towards a certain purpose or goal, which I think is uh, a very important quality of being a leader. For uh, example, uh, previous work uh, I've done with one of the student organizations on campus called Camp Castle mit. We had a committee that myself and my co coordinator had a committee which we used to organize reunions for campers and um, newsletters for families to give you more context with that. My job in that organization was to be a liaison between organization which runs a student camp, a student run camp for kids whose parents have or cancer and being a liaison between our organization and the families who um, go to that camp. So that was my role last year and I believe I was able to organize my community pretty effectively. Right now I'm also a member of MIT dance troupe which uh, is a dance group on campus and uh, I'm a choreographer. So I'm organizing people there and definitely making sure that we meet our deadlines on time for the big show that we hold every semester. So I think I can uh, organize people pretty effectively and have a will to get things done.Sure. Okay. Um, I think to get one of choosing, let's go with so the same uh, organization, Camp Castle Organization last year as the coordinator for the families. A big challenge for us was organizing our data. So how that. Essentially what I meant by that is each family had to apply with their camper's applications. But the uh, applications itself were pretty, pretty heavy and required a lot of information. Doctors records. Medical records. So people would send in their applications at different parts um, during the year. Um, so they would never usually send in a full application. So keeping track of that um, proved to be pretty challenging in itself. Um, there were about three of us that they would send different parts to, uh, and there were about 90 campers or about 100 campers who ended up sending in documents. So making sure that um, my team was communicating was important. Very, very important. In order to get through that, um, we decided to develop a sort of tool for uh, organizing in the sense that whoever received that piece of the application would enter it into this sort of database. We decided, um, to construct, um, building the application in contact, the uh, family saying what they were missing and what they have turned in. Because sometimes there's a little bit of a lapse in communication about who was to tell the parents what they were missing and things of that nature. I think it worked pretty well. It was definitely a uh, system that could be used in future years. Unfortunately, they switched to a different system, an online system this year, so won't be able to implement anymore. But it was a brief.Yeah.Okay, I think for me, um, risk taking is probably something I could work on. Now I don't mean by risk taking risks just for the sake of taking risks, but being more open to trying something I'm not particularly, uh, familiar with or don't know exactly what the outcome is going to be is definitely something I could uh, give more thought towards. I'm generally a conservative person when making decisions and trying to go with um, solutions that I can definitely plan out and foresee. But I understand that especially in the real world, there are times when you just don't know what's going to happen later down the line. Decisions have to be made. So keeping that in mind, uh, knowing when to take risk and definitely being more open to alternative ways of going down a certain path to a solution is something I could, I'd like to change by myself.Sure. Okay. So, uh, I think that the biggest, one of the biggest qualities of me is for me is uh, being able to, being eager and able to learn quickly. Um, I'm very eager, um, to learn individual. I've uh, come into internships before not knowing much about the sort of technologies and frameworks that have been used. Uh, for example this past summer at my internship at this small company, I had never used Ruby or many of the JavaScript frameworks they had used before and many of the testing frameworks and had to just hit the ground running, but I think I have a very, uh, big enthusiasm for learning new things. And it's one of the greatest joys in the world to me is to, like, go in and just learn a new technology and put it into practice. So I think that what I may lack for in experience, I more than make up for in a very eager to learn, uh, attitude and ability to pick up things pretty quickly in practice.No problem. Thanks for having me.
P45: Pretty good. How are you?Okay, so, um, my name is Bonnie. I'm a junior at MIT, um, in Core 6, which, if you don't know, is a college. Engineering in computer science. I'm minoring in economics, um, also mathematics. So I'm interested, you know, application of data and quantitative reasoning to any sort of, like, interesting field. So that includes economics, finance, biology. So there's a very wide array of interests. And I'm here today because, well, I was told that there'd be a good time here. The Interview, study, excellent.Oh, what year were you?Okay.Okay, so I'd say one, um, fairly informal instance actually was over this past spring break. A couple friends and I, ah, four of us, actually, a fairly small group, um, we biked from Philadelphia to Boston over spring break because we thought that'd be a good idea, whether it actually was. There were some amazing ups, some amazing downs. Um, definitely a very, very memorable experience. And there were just some points over the course of the trip when it was, you know, 45 degrees, except you're biking on the state highway, it's raining, and around Connecticut. We felt like giving up a little bit. You just, uh, took. Just heading back up, taking the train. And I really riled people up in terms of reminding us why we were doing this, reminding us of the fact that we're already 60% of the way through. We might as well push on, uh, all the way to the end of our journey. And just, I guess, evoking everyone's different motivation because everyone wants to do something awesome, but everyone has a slightly different motivation for why they joined the team in the first place. And I guess providing individualized reasons and individualized motivations to, uh, different parts of our team as to why they came on in the first place and why that's still something that resonates with them. And using that, I was able to get the group back together. And we did bike all the way back up here. So that was a very rewarding experience.Sorry, what challenge?Oh, I mean, another challenge.Okay. Um, well, most of the challenges I've seen coming in sort of teamwork involve either, uh, Internal challenge, something that's coming from within the team or an external challenge. So I guess if we were to talk about an external challenge, um, something not involving a lack of motivation, uh, it would, let's see. So my freshman year I, uh, was involved in this organization on campus called Tech Fair where we basically organize um, a tech expo at the beginning of the um, beginning of the school year. And uh, again I was able to motivate people towards the end when there was a lot of work happening, a lot of 12 hour days to get the logistics down before the event. And I guess again there, ah, it does come down to really motivating people, um, speaking to their individual passions to get them to do things which they might not want to in the short run.My greatest weakness I've um, noticed can be a, uh, lack of focus. Especially if I have a large number of tasks. It's very easy to, instead of cashing away all my other tasks somewhere and focusing on one at a time, it's very easy for me to pop one out but still have subtasks of the other things I have to do running in the back of my mind. Um, so of late I've been trying to basically get more organized. I had this hypothesis that if I use Google Calendar, Google this, Google that, all these other products to try to serve as fairly intelligent places where I can hash away my uh, other tasks, it'll provide me with something which is very trustworthy that I will trust enough to not worry about those tasks. Because what usually happens, I just write it down on a piece of paper. I don't trust that I'll be able to find it. And the risk of forgetting to do something important is pretty great to bear. So that's been pretty useful so far. I've noticed that. I've had an urge sometimes to think about the things I have to do. But I just remind myself that, wait, wait, you wrote that down there. You probably knew what you were doing. So don't worry about that. There's the supervisor, which is yourself, taking care of your other tasks.So I think that one thing, um, I do retain in addition to, well, like I said, I've had this, what used to be a problem in terms of being able to focus on the task, but it does come with the added benefit of being able to juggle lots of tasks at the same time. I know lots of people who do focus on one task. It often becomes one task. One project going on for a couple months becomes the forefront of their thought. Their imagination becomes what they can handle. However, having been accustomed to juggling lots of stuff in the past, I think one great skill I can bring to the table is, um, provide a very, very agile member to the team who can juggle lots of different projects and bring insight to all of them without, with my newfound organizational abilities, getting too, uh, caught up in the mix.Thank you very much for talking to me.Okay, so I'm, uh, a student here at mit and I like to study electrical engineering, computer science, um, you know, very quantitatively minded. I'm also minoring in mathematics and economics and I'm interested in a variety of applications of math and computer science to any sort of field where there's interesting problems that can bring together a practical application and a use of my technical skill set.Yeah, I think so. I think, um, I have a talent for being able to identify what motivates people. And in organizations it's very easy to get caught up in what's perceived to be everyone's common motive, what the company is supposed to be about. And although the idealistic framework would be nice if everyone was working indeed towards the same goal, in reality, sometimes different agents, different people in the company, different people in the group have different, slightly different goals for why they're in the, uh, game in the first place. And I think by being able to recognize these individual motives and being able to marshal them, instead of as a destructive force towards the company, being able to marshal everyone's individual talents and desires, um, as a force that can be used to benefit the company, I think this sort of deeper, deeper attention to what people want is what makes me able to be a good leader. By being able to take all the resources I've provided in the team and use the parts to make a good whole sum.I think yeah. At the end of the day, I am a team player, you know, within reason, of course, as long as I don't think some ridiculous demand is being made of me, um, which is, you know, demeaning or just not useful in terms of if there's a demand being made of me that's not best fulfilled by me and my skill set, then I would obviously defer to someone else on the team. But given that it is a demand or a request that's made that will tailor itself to my skill set, I think I'm a team player. Um, for example, I think more skilled, a lot of quantitative analysis than people from other backgrounds. And there have been many times working on group projects in some sort of interdisciplinary cast where I would be asked to take on some extra role for data analysis just simply because I have more experience with the field and it would be just more beneficial for the entire team to have someone who already has more experience, to not have to enter the learning curve at the steepest point, but instead to be able to produce good work pretty quickly.If I were to change one thing about myself? Um, it would probably have to be, I guess, being more mindful of my time and being a little bit more meticulous to make sure that all those unaccounted for minutes that pass by over the course of the day, um, don't add up into large chunks of time that are being unused. I wish I had, um, a better sense of realizing quickly when my time is not being used optimally and bringing to action to correct that.So I think for most jobs in this one as well, um, in a very quantitative type field, which does also involve leading a team of people from various backgrounds, I think that I would be uniquely skilled for this job because I do have a strong technical background. While I can also, you know, take different parts of a team and bring together people, you know, with different motives initially into a coherent unit to get the job done.Thank you very much.
P47: I'm well. Thanks for coming.So please tell me about yourself.To know that's good? Okay, well, thanks. So I've got a series of questions I'd like to ask, so tell time when you demonstrate leadership.Excellent. So tell me about a time when you were working on a team and you were faced with a challenge. How did you go about solving the problem?Excellent. So, uh, tell me about one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it.So now, thinking of a job that you'd like to have, you get one at night?Well, think of something. Why do you think we should hire you?So are you thinking between an athletician?Okay, fair enough. Cool.Excellent. Well, thanks for coming in today.So I'm a math major at mit. I'm a junior. Specifically I study applied mathematics and computer science. Uh, heavy focus on statistics and algorithms.Um, I think myself sometimes as a leader definitely able to organize things and get things done when they need to be done. Not the most organized person. So in some regard I'm not. But, um, I think I've been pretty successful in getting groups to achieve goals.So I think I am a team player. I, um, have a pretty diverse background as far as CS and math related kinds of things go. And so, um, I'm pretty good at working with different, uh, people from different backgrounds, specifically in those fields and also in other fields. Um, I think in particular a challenge with that is being able to communicate to, um, team members your ideas if they're not exactly familiar with you.Sure. So I think one thing that I certainly don't like is that I tend to be very nervous, especially when speaking in front of large groups of people. And I think definitely if I could avoid that problem. It's certainly good. One thing is because you're always given the opportunity to talk in front of people. And it's um, whether you're presenting work or you're socializing or something, meeting new people, it's always something that you have to deal with. And being very sociable or being around a lot of people is certainly very healthy.So I think one of the reasons is that I enjoy a good challenge. Um, and I enjoy very challenging problems, which I know that your company certainly offers. Um, another reason is that my interests are very aligned with the company's interests. And I think that both could benefit from learning, especially myself from your company and people we work with.
P48: I'm a student. I study computer science. Um, I'm in my last year, so when I graduate in May, I'm going to be working on computer science stuff.I demonstrate leadership on the track team. I'm a senior, Paul Walter, on the team. So, uh, right now we're doing, uh, the conditioning and stuff like that. And all throughout the preseason, a lot of freshmen come, and it's important to get them up to speed. So the, uh, seniors on the team, myself included, lead them throughout the workouts and stuff like that. It's important to be able to stand up and let them know how the tradition is and stuff like that.In my living group, we. We, uh, had a problem that the rent was getting too expensive because we didn't have quite enough people living there. But we still had a set amount of rent that we had to pay as a group. So the prices were going up to the point that people had to get kicked out. So that was pretty rough. But this happened like a year ago. So, like, one of my close friends is like, I can't afford these prices. Like, there's just like, no way. And like, then it dominoes, which was a huge problem. And a lot of people suggested, like, a lot of different. A lot of different. Most of them were like, were motivated from anger. So some people were like, oh, yeah, everybody who moves out, she's allowed to pay. And other people were like, oh, no, if I'm not living there, I shouldn't have to do anything. So it's like, pretty contentious. But we worked it out to, uh. It was like a variation of a plan that I suggested, which was that we would, uh, we would change the rent based on room size and how many people were living in the room. So we'd allow people to have more space themselves and pay more, but people who would have otherwise been forced out could, uh, have more people crammed into a room and save a lot of money. So we kept telling people that we were kicked out. Oh, God, yeah. But it was pretty rough to get that motion passed.I'm the opposite, um, of Type A, so I can be Pretty disorganized. My lab notebooks, a lot of times I have a lot of scribbles in it. And when I write code, the documentation tends to be on the shaky side. Uh, so it makes it kind of hard for other people to find when doing later on. And I never really thought it was a problem until the most recent project I've been on that I had to leave the project for a short amount of time and my partner picked up where I left off and he had no idea what was going on. And I was like, this is actually a problem. The teacher is like, don't just tell you to document just to aggravate you. So I worked, uh, so since then I've been working on, uh, like documenting what I do just like more diligently, but then also to check back up on it so that there's some kind of review before I show other people or before I let it out to the point that other people might rely on it. So just to read my documentation again, which I've never done before until this most recent project with that problem, that's always a good practice. Yeah.Sure.Mostly because results, I just like, get things done. Um, and there's like, there's a lot of things I know how to do. Especially the job that I'm thinking of is, uh, like a programming job at a startup. And like my background, my degree is actually nuclear engineering. So like, I don't have like the background, I don't have the internships and stuff like that. A lot of the coding interview questions that they ask, like, I tend to not know, which is pretty rough. But, uh, I think that I would be hired, I should be hired because I would be resourceful and I do what it takes to get things done, which is like working longer, being more resourceful and stuff like that. So like, I believe I can get like more results than somebody who has like the same background or has a better background. Excellent.Uh, well, I go to my dm a senior right now and I'll be graduating, do computer science work. I work with a startup right now that I help found.Yeah.To me a leader, somebody who takes initiative and creates a vision when they're in a blank slate. So uh, when I think of somebody who's a leader, they don't have to be told what's done or what needs to get done. And they from um, the infinite number of choice and possibilities can quickly pick out two or three, make a decision and also get other people excited about it and organized.I mean, obviously I do think I'm a team player. I'm going to give you an example of a specific challenge. Uh, for the reactor design project as a senior, we had to. My group was in charge of analyzing the uh, materials and we. This section that I got assigned was uh, within our team. We did like a self, uh, splitting it up and I got like a way, way heavy load and somebody else got a really, really light load. So it was like pretty. I didn't know if I should talk to somebody else about it or stuff like that. And I decided if we're going to do it as a team, then we're not on the same page. So at some of our meetings we made sure to split it up a little more evenly.Never have to sleep. Like realistic things.Definitely to be more organized. So a lot of time I'll get like, my notes will get messy and mixed up and stuff like that. Organizations like, I've been working at it, but it's like not where it used to be.I do.Because I work well with other groups and this job requires like small groups to work together to accomplish things. And a small group is like the perfect environment for me to do work. It's collaborative, but it's not, like, bureaucratic. So it's like, the perfect environment. And I have some experience in the area. But more importantly, I figure things out and get them done like, as they need to be so people don't have to tell me what to do or watch over me and stuff like that. Like, if I want something to be accomplished, like, we'll work with a team to get it done without, like, somebody telling you or watching you, whatever.Yeah.
P49: So my name is Fernando Rivera. I am a junior here. I come from Puerto Rico and I am currently studying biological engineering. Uh, I'm considering doing pre medicine. Maybe going into either an MD, let's say apply to some school as an MD or going to an MD PhD program. Um, my main interest is basically oncology. But over the past few years I've been doing a couple of research programs. Urops. I did an internship and it basically gave me a view that I could tackle that problem in a lot of ways. So not just being a clinician, but being a medical researcher. And that's how I got interested into the whole MD, PhD thing. And I got a hold of, uh, some programs that I viewed and there's a lot out there. I couldn't have imagined that if I stayed at home. It's amazing what people do here.So I'm pretty involved in, in campus groups. Uh, I was the first founder of, uh, their restructuring of Beta Theta PI. So I'm, um, currently UNC chapter president. Uh, so I'm leading the whole calorie of recruitment right here in campus. And we're getting a lot of results. Um, I'm also in the board of Puerto Rican students. I function as social share. And I am also pretty involved in dorm government, especially, uh, rec. CBW planning. So I just like to get around. So anything that gives me that type of opportunity, uh, to just explore and meet guys, it's all really cool for me. Um, I was also considering some. Something for sagger, uh, in terms of being team treasurer. But unfortunately I had a bit of an accident with my legs. So I got out of soccer.So I actually had a really, really, uh, humbling experience. Uh, last semester. I took a class, biomechanics. Uh, a lot of people in that class were juniors and I was a sophomore. So everybody there was much more experience than me. So I was the only sophomore in my group. There were two ones that were juniors and it was the final project. And when we sat down and started talking about things to do, I basically had almost no knowledge of the things they were planning because they already took cell biology and they took really advanced courses in fluid dynamics and they were trying to do some tissue modeling. Even though the class was biomechanics. And I could understand some of the things I Had absolutely no idea what uh, I was doing and they just put me there. And one of them was really helpful and actually guided me through the initial process. But the other one was not available at any time so I basically had to sit down. I actually met with the professor a couple of times just to like talk and chat. And we took the professor out for lunch so we can just like talk about stuff. And I actually had to find out my own way through everything with a little help of the only junior friend that was actually available to me. And it was humbling because normally when I worked on teams we were all pretty equal. Equal minded or it was uh, in a humanities class because normally technical classes here don't have that much team projects in sophomore year. Normally laboratories and final design project classes are for older students. So it was a surprise for me when it came like I'm a sophomore, I'm already doing final presentations for biomechanics. And it just caught me pretty off guard. And the only way we ended up doing an extremely awesome project. But it took lots of coffee, Red Bull and Wikipedia. That's my strategy for now because it was completely new territory right there, um, compared to humanities or any other classes where everybody has the same mindset. So that was my group trauma.So I've been having actually trouble, self recognizable trouble about so stepping up from the inexperienced type of uh, situation. Uh, that was actually the first group project I had where that experience happened. I feel like if I get into something that I don't basically know, I have a really hard time finding stuff out for myself. So if I don't come prepared to do something, it takes me a while to get to a pace to actually start absorbing material and actually contributing. Which is kind of a handicap because some um, students are already up to speed and they already expect some things from me. And obviously I would like to give out my all and hand them uh, everything they want in a silver platter. But it's hard for me so I've been trying. So basically the solution for me was basically studying more, uh, putting much more effort for my part. But it's still uh, a big minus in my turf. It takes me a while to dominate things that I don't have an up to speed education to. And that has cost like mishaps that well through hard work you can overcome them, but a lot of work compared to your regular person.Yeah.So I feel like even though I've gone through many obstacles, I've always tried and found a way to exert myself to a, uh, bigger limit than I previously had thought. So I might sometimes feel that I don't have that knowledge on me, but I will go out and get it, even if it takes a lot of coffee or a lot of effort. Because there's also a sense of satisfaction in actually giving it more than you can but seeing that actually succeed. You know what I mean? Uh, it's like what MIT does to you. You are humbled by an immense amount of work. You're humbled by extremely hard classes that you had no idea that they were going to come and blast you with pieces. Homeworks and exams, that you are overwhelmed. But you sit down, you think about stuff. I sit down and I think about stuff and I get a plan done. The good thing about the plan, it takes some time to devise a plan because it's not as efficient. It's not efficient to go randomly guessing what to do. Uh, but having like an educated guess, if you remember the SATs, where it's like you may not always know the answer, but you can make an educated guess of what the answer may be. So that's the way I approach things when I have no idea what I'm doing, but after some effort it will actually get me to a place where I can say, hey, I'm here, let's get cracking. Uh, that's sort of like the general mindset I have for many problems, be it in the life sciences, if I have to do an assay, if I have to come up with elucidating a mechanism that does this to breast cancer cells, or if I go by the walks of life, can take you anywhere. If I end up being a consultant for a, for Johnson Johnson, let's say my company for, ah, for random purposes. And this is the same way you tackle every problem. You get a plan. You find out what you have a hard time doing, then you sit down and do it. Um, sometimes it's frustrating because results don't come out like this. Um, but I feel like once you get the hang of it, you can start, your productivity increases by X fold X be a number much higher than one. Let's, uh, talk MIT right here. Yeah, I feel that's the, uh, that's at least my way of tackling things. And it's gotten me through a lot, and it's actually helped me wear down the walls of MIT and have better experience at it. So I feel it's the same way I should attack all the problems that come to me.It's been a tough week.Um, my name is Fernando Rivera. To start, I'm, uh, a junior in course 20, which is biological engineering. I come from Puerto Rico and I've been learning a bit more, which is passion year about what do I actually want to do in life. Right now my main goals are set more towards the medicine m side of um, bioengineering. So medical devices, biomaterials, tissue engineering, drug delivery. It's what interests me right now. Uh, it's not set right now. That's why I'm also tending to go to different research opportunities and different, uh, pharmaceutical internships. And we'll see what happens from there on. And I'll, uh, be able to focus on one actual path per se.So I think I'm a leader because I like planning things. I like to gather all the information I have, all the resources I have, and all the basically either group, all the group times, or each contribution from each person, gather them all up and come together with an efficient plan to tackle said problem or homework or project or presentation, whichever may be the case. Um, I tend to make people give more than I made them give more than 100% of what they, the bar they set themselves at. So I feel if I feel that somebody has potential, I can notice it and at the same time I can work with a person to basically exploit that potential to a new maximum. At the same way I feel that I am very open to constructive criticism. So if somebody feels that I'm not doing a great job, I am very happy just to sit with them and learn from that experience because it's going to make me more efficient in the future. So I feel that just having a set plan from the start to tackle problems and at the same way editing it and adapting it to every new situation or the feelings of the people you are basically, uh, overseeing, then that's, ah, a very good, uh, approach to everything that we do.So teams have been, uh, a really large aspect of my life. Ever since high school, I've been part of, uh, uh, the soccer team. I continue to do that now. I've been part of debate team and honor, uh, society, which had its own team for competitions. But I feel that the biggest challenge right now has been when I am with a team of people that are seniors to me. So they are much better prepared, much better informed, and have a arsenal of skills that I have yet to acquire because I just don't have the, the same level of experience as they have. So if I'm a sophomore, I've been grouped with seniors and juniors in my subject of an engineering class. And the difference is very noticeable. The difference of level and performance is very noticeable. And I try to basically give what I can, but I also want to excel at what I can actually move forward to. So if I feel that I can actually contribute much more than what they're expecting of me, because if I don't have that level of experience, what I want to do is get to that level. So I gotta work harder, push through and get to this level that is basically at, uh, the same as the other group, as the rest of the group. So I'll try to work with people and try to find someone who can mentor me through that process and step by step, because the biggest challenge for me is just being alone and just tackling, uh, it straight. I will use the other group members. I will gladly approach them and ask for help because that's what the group's for. The team succeeds together all the way. So that's how I go.I would say doubting. Doubting myself, doubting the things I do, the, uh, decisions I make. I would like to have absolutely no regrets or if I have them, learn something from them. I sometimes am fairly a safe player, so I calculate the risk before I see the return. So I'm, um, not a great fan of plunging in into something I don't know. That's high risk, high return. I like to play it safe and have a thing to fall back on. The same way it works for problems, it works for personal life, and it works for basically everything that surrounds me. And I feel that it's been changing with every new experience. I've been passing through, leaving homes, college outside of Puerto Rico. But I still feel that I will greatly benefit of just letting it go and taking more of a risk than I normally do.The first one that pops right into mind is bioengineering.So I've always been naturally curious, uh, about things I've always had a drive behind everything I do. So I got into bioengineering right after I saw that I had this opportunity. Coming into MIT and coming from a family that has been affected by a lot of cancer, I found that doing this, I could actually benefit my family, benefit other people's families that have been affected by it. Uh, I've, uh, been going through some really tough times with grandmothers and other family members that have survived and succumbed to it. And from there, my motivation has been always to push forward, no matter what the challenge. So when I step into a lab, I see what I have in front of me. The ultimate goal might be the farthest goal in my life. I may never reach it, but rest assured that I will do my best to contribute for its forward movement. I will always try and leave it at a, uh, better place than it was before. And if I'm not the one to reach it, another person will. But I will be sure that I actually contributed to it.
P50: Myself? Well, uh, I don't know how much you know from any sort of, uh, registration process or anything, but I'm Arian. I'm a junior right now, so I'm in my third year. I'm uh. I guess it's typical MIT style to talk about what I'm majoring. So I'm majoring in mathematics and physics. Uh, I also dabble in course six, computer science. And uh, I'm thinking of getting a minor in French or French literature. I, um, grew up in the States, in Northern Virginia. Um, growing up, I guess I was interested in. I played a lot of competitive chess. I was also interested in recreationally and tennis and soccer and uh, other forms of entertainment.So, in high school I was, uh. For my junior and senior years, I was captain of uh, a chess team of my high school. And uh, we participated. So, I mean, people typically think of chess as an individual sport, but, uh, we participated in quite a few team, uh, events, such as States, which we won every year. Which we've been winning every year. Every year. Uh, but also nationals, which had, until before I went there, been kind of a little bit out of our reach. You know, we used to go there, we'd get maybe fifth or so. But when I was there, um, I managed to lead us almost the first. We came in second three years in a row. We came in first in blitz. Uh, just speeches under, uh, my leadership. And I mean, to be fair, the people coming in were talented to begin with, but, uh, perhaps had they not had that environment, we would not have done as well.Challenge. There were countless examples when, uh, group projects in high school. Uh, there was one time when, uh, freshman year in high school, working on a. We had something called iBIT. Integrated biology, electronics and uh, Technology. Biology, English, Technology. And uh, we had a group project. Four persons in the group. And toward, you know, a few days before the presentation, we found that the person who had done a decent bit of our data analysis had done it incorrectly. And, uh, he was not available. He was out of town at the time. So it was. We didn't really know, um, what had gone wrong, but he had come up with some results which were clearly, um, you know, could not be explained by experimental error. There was clearly something he had done incorrectly. So we had to rush to, um, fix what had gone wrong and uh, to redo many of the tests, which was a big challenge given the time, consumer constraints. And so we had to re divvy up the work in addition to what each of the remaining members had to do anyway and uh, somehow to compile it for the final presentation.I realize it's not like a life threatening challenge, but I understand.Weaknesses? Um, I guess one weakness would be, uh, being very honest with myself in terms of trying to determine exactly what I want to do and focusing all my faculties on that, uh, rather than trying to, you know, keeping one's options open I think is a good thing, but I think that sometimes it can be uh, an excuse for not taking risks. So I think one, uh, issue, and this was in part because of where I went to high school, this culture was very pervasive of trying to do everything. Uh, and in great part this causes you not to commit to any one thing, which in one way could be good, I guess, in terms of keeping your options open. But on the other hand, if you have, if you knew, if you had known what you want to do specifically and had devoted all your uh, resources to that specifically, of course you would do better in that. And in the end, uh, you're probably going to pick something. So I guess, uh, one weakness is trying to be honest with myself about what specifically I want to do and to devote resources to that. And what I'm trying to do, um, to address that I guess is it may seem at the beginning to be somewhat, you know, uh, paradoxical, but uh, what I've been doing actually has been trying out a, uh, wide variety of things. So I can, you know, so I can't use the excuse that, you know, there's a bunch of things that I don't really know yet. So I should keep my options open. I'll try them out and if I don't like them, the ones that I don't like, I'll drop. So that'll give me, uh, a way of deciding on what's left. But what's left will be what I like.All right, so, well, it's still early in terms of job search, but one job that I would like that I'm considering is trading, proprietary, uh, trading or some sort of quantitative finance. And uh, I think I'd be a strong candidate because I have an extremely strong quantitative background. In mathematics and. And, uh, modeling, uh, computer science work. I've done physics as well. And I, uh, have a history of being competitive, uh, both in an academic environment and in chess and in other sports. And I've, um, always. Especially if what we're talking about is a trader, uh, trading. Uh, I've always been interested in strategy games such as chess, poker, etc. Uh, trying to find an optimal strategy and use it to win. And that, I think, is the skill set that's required for that kind of a job.Very well, thanks.My background? Uh, I have a fairly technical background. I went to a fairly technical high school. Uh, I have mainly a mathematics and physics background with also some computer science. Uh, I also have been involved in leadership, uh, outside of. Outside of academics. So in high school I was, uh, captain of my chest team. And I also served as president of a couple of clubs in high school. So I have some experience in that regard. Like I said, mainly I have a pretty quantitative technical background, uh, with some sprinkling of other stuff as well.Yes, I think so. Because I, uh, typically think using my own mind, and I act on those decisions rather than listening to it. Uh, I mean, of course I take into account what I think was Lincoln who said that you should take into account what people tell you, but then make your own decision. He said it more elaborately, but that was the essence of what he was saying. And I try to use that in everyday life and also in important projects. And I usually have, uh. I'm usually pretty successful in convincing people that my way is right when it.Um, yeah, I think so. Uh, when it's a matter of ideology, I don't like to make compromises. But when it's a matter of, uh, getting stuff done, I think that I am a team player. I think that, uh, usually I'm willing to make sacrifices, if necessary for the ultimate goal. And so, for example, one time in high school, we had a group project, and one of the members. I mean, it was more complicated than I'm making it. But the gist of it was that one of the members was responsible for our data analysis. He fell short. Uh, we found out pretty late, uh, just a few days before the presentation, that he had misdone most of the data analysis. And as a result, the rest of us, but especially me, because it was a group of four, and we were kind of divided into two, him and me, and then subdivided into ones. So he and I were kind of a subgroup of a larger group. And so I was more responsible for what he had done than the other two were. So it was mainly me, with some help from the other two. We had to put in a lot of work in those last few days. Uh, especially me. I had to fix that and try to get it functional. Before the presentation was due.I guess maybe being, uh, being more decisive on incomplete information. I have a tendency to try to make. To try to get almost perfect information before I commit 100% to a decision. And of course that's not always possible. And so I do, I mean I do of course make decisions based on imperfect information every day. You have to, otherwise you wouldn't. But I feel that if there's a spectrum of how decisive you're willing to be based on a certain amount of information, I think the ideal place that I would like to be is a little further toward, uh, the decisive on incomplete information than where I am right now. Uh, so I would shift that a little bit.Um, I mean, let's go with, uh, quantitative trading.I think I have the necessary skill set and the. Not maybe personality, but more the, uh. So in terms of skill set, you know, it takes a very quantitative mathematical background, um, with the ability to implement stuff, uh, program and so on. And I have all of that. Takes a lot of modeling skills. I have that mathematical modeling and whatnot. It also requires you to be a very competitive, which I have been, and B, to be willing to, you know, to go through hell for certain periods of time when you're either up next to a deadline or something unexpected happens. And so it requires you to be able to vary the amount of time you put in, usually for the higher, uh, for an increased amount of time, significant bit from the average. So I, and I think I have a lot of experience doing that and it's something that I've shown I can handle.Thank you.
P52: I'm fine.I'm Daniel. I'm a freshman. Um, I'm from Florida. Florida. I'm thinking about, uh, course eight and six one here. I actually, uh, uh, was here for Ronan, but I realized that it wasn't me. So, um, I decided to drop it early and now I'm pursuing triathlon. So, um, yeah, classes are doing fine. I'm looking for a job now. So that's about it.I'd say probably. I'd say rowing in high school is probably my best demonstration. I was, um, senior in the junior bar seat boat after some, um, qualms with seat racing. But, um, I really like. I thought showed them that like, even though I wasn't put in the best situation, like I performed indiscriminately. And I think in a way it showed them that we would still be able to compete against the varsity eight. And there was times where like, we were always even like half the season. We were always like around the same time and we ended up meddling at stakes. And I'd say that a good part is by leaning by example by the older, uh, upperclassmen. So I feel like maybe that was the point as to demonstrate leadership.Well, there's a lot of issues with my coach, uh, in rowing. So if it wasn't, I think, um, I went through a lot of issues with my assistant coach. I came for a year and she helped me sort things a lot. She showed that I did have proper technique. It was more of, uh, like. More like a discriminating issue with my coach wanting certain people on the boat just because he thought it moved better. But I realized that as long as I kept on pursuing the sport, like, that's all that really mattered. And it's all like my own efforts will fruit in something that would take me somewhere. And it helped me get into mit. So I feel like, um, just like seeing things my own way rather than being distraught by other people affecting me, helped.I think one of my weaknesses has to be, um, the fact that I'm a little negligent with my work and uh, I'm lazy at times. I definitely procrastinate. It was a Pretty thing through high school and it's still a little bit down because of a passing record. Uh, I think one way I'm combating it is goal setting. Uh, I learned it from, uh, one of an upperclassmen that I know, uh, in mit. He, um, told me, like, to write out weekly goals and write out long term goals. Long term goals mean the end of mit. After, uh, mit, what you want to do after MIT experience and short term goals are just like, get stuff done now. So in a way that kind of put things in perspective for me. Realize that I shouldn't be burning too much time messing around. I mean, certainly I should be messing around a little bit just because it's a good time to have fun and relax, but at the same time I shouldn't do it. So I guess that's helping me a little bit.Actually, yeah. I've never had lab experience before, so I really want a year off, which is my issue. Yeah.Um, well, sorry. Um, I don't have any experience, so I feel like, um, it's a good place for me to start and I'm really willing to do whatever it takes to make time for it. Um, seeing how I'm not taking too many classes this semester because I'm at a course command, um, I'll be making sure I'll have enough time m to make classes more manageable. I should be able to commit hours on it. I'm really interested in the grop I'm doing, so hopefully that interest will inspire me to aspire me to work hard.Uh, well, I'm from Florida. Delario. Uh, I was born in Miami. M. My, uh, parents are from. I'm, uh, South Korean by ethnicity. I'd say I'm more American by heritage. But, um, my parents came around here around the 80s and they settled down and around. I was born, like, around the 90s. I was born here in Florida. Uh, all my schooling in Florida. I went to public school until seventh grade and then private schooling until I graduated. And I'm here. That's a brief synopsis of my background.I think I am. Uh, just because, um, of, uh, seniority. Maybe through sports or just through, um. I feel like it's hard for people to not be leaders, especially when you're, um, assigned to do group work or assigned to do goal settings. I feel like if you're in any situation where you have to do goal setting, you're being a leader by putting out what tasks you should do and how to execute them and how you tell. You're telling yourself, how am I gonna get this done? Uh, at the same. So, like, basically leading yourself, I believe, um, maybe I'd say, screw sports. I was probably a leader by me being the upperclassman who led my teammates on. So I'd say, yeah, I've been a leader.Um, yes. So seeing how m. I rode four years, I, um, think the biggest conflict was, um, when in, um, junior year, I was rowing for the Junior 8 for Scholastic Nationals, where you're in the grand finals. And in the last 200 meters of the fiterramere race, my oar popped out. Oh, wow. And we ended up actually going from third to dead last of the grand finals. That, uh, was possibly the most hard experience because that made me really reevaluate what it meant for me to continue rowing. Especially when it was something that I spent four hours a day, six days a week on for, like, my entire senior year, uh, high school career. And that was something that was going to carry over through college. And what really, um, made me realize was that, yes, like, that was a big mistake. That was like a mistake. It could have happened to anyone. But if it weren't for some people, if it weren't for just me just being. Just taking it and. And just like, maturing from it. I think that's what it takes if you go through something really bad. But you can get stronger from it and you can still push something onto the table. Like last year I was a senior and still work hard, um, to really fight through enmity. You can really become great. And I feel like that's why I was really working to change my feeling that. And um, in the end, like we once we um, meddled. We were runner ups in states. We meddled in states. So I think that was a good, uh, good conflict that it was all good.That's pretty tough.I wish. I wish if I could change one thing about myself, I wish it would have been me being, I think, more proactive to doing something. I'd say more m. I wish I was more. I wish I could. I wish I was a little more volatile in things. I chose actually because I feel like, um, I stuck to just doing career four years in high school and I thought that was great. But I was wondering, I wondered what would happen to me if I just actually tried different more than one thing. I know for some people it's good to stick to one thing and just grow in that field. But I always wondered what would happen if I pursued more towards research or more towards club activities. That way I could have like a more well rounded high school experience.One right.Well, I think I should have this job, um, mainly because I find that I'm well with groups. I work very well with groups. At the same time, when you push me to do tasks by myself, I'm able to do the same amount of being just as productive. I feel like, um, as an advocate being subject to group work and individual work, um, there should be no difference in how I should produce something in group individual work. And I should be just as creative and innovative if I was working myself. Right. I was like spending time working with a group of people. So I feel like if I was going to get this job, um, it would help greatly for, for the people I'll be working with and for myself.
P53: Um, well, I was born in Nigeria, um, and I moved to the United States at the age of eight. And I've lived here in Boston actually ever since. Um, and, um, for as long as I remember, I've always wanted to go into the medical field. I've always wanted to be a doctor. And just recently I actually discovered that I wanted to be a pediatrician. After working with kids, I've done a lot of babysitting in high school and I've actually shadowed a neonatologist. And I thought that was when it clicked that I actually really want to be a pediatrician. And I've tutored a lot, middle school and high school. And that's really affirming the fact that I do like my career. I want it to be something where I work with kids.Time I've demonstrated leadership. Um, I guess one obvious one is the student groups that I work with. Um, my primary, um, student group is the Black Students Union. I'm currently a coach here and I've been active with the group since I've been at mit currently as a co chair. I plan all the events, um, for, um, the group, as well as kind of represent the group, um, in front of administration as far as, like, what our UM members want, what they need, if they have any concerns or anything like that. And we have several meetings with administration on a regular basis just to communicate what's going on, what we're doing and what our membership needs and how they can help us with that.Team, face the challenge. Okay, um, I guess back to the student group. So this is the second time I've actually been on the executive board. The m first. Last year the executive board ran really smoothly. We worked well together. But this year we were kind of having problems because it's a new set of people. So it's kind of hard adjusting to, um, the people that I'm working with. Um, so, you know, we all have different viewpoints, different ways of approaching things. Um, so we had a lot of loss of communication, which kind of hindered, um, our, uh, progress this year. Um, but this. In the past few weeks, we've been able to kind of figure out that, you know, there's been a loss of communication and we should definitely, like, you know, we need to figure out how to stop that barrier and learn more, to communicate more in order to get the things that we want to accomplish. Done. Okay.My weaknesses. I think my biggest weakness is not knowing when to say no. I'm the kind of person that if someone asks me to do something, even if I feel like it's impossible, I always say yes. Um, and I've always. I think I realized that problem when I came to mit, and I've been working on it ever since my sophomore year. I'm a junior right now. And, uh, what I've been doing to overcome it is kind of, um, schedule myself. Um, I have my calendar. I live by my calendar. And I know if it doesn't fit in my calendar, if it's overlapping with something, then absolutely, no, I can't do it. So I live by m. My calendar now. And definitely helping me say no to things when people ask me to do things for them.Um, I think that I am a good asset. Um, one. Because my MIT experience has definitely prepared me for, I would say the worst, because of the experience as an MIT student. It's a unique experience, um, but I've also gained a lot of a broad range of academic skills. Skills, um, not just in the life sciences, but also in the engineering field and political science field that I think I can bring into the medical field with the help of the knowledge that I gained in medical school to kind of help the world, which is what I want to do ultimately. So I think that would be a good asset for the medical field.Good. Tell me more about your background.That's great. I think you'd scoot over a little bit left. Thank you. Um, do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.Great. And do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example when there was a conflict in your team and you're to resolve it?If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?That's great. And why do you think you should get into medical school?
P55: So I'm a junior at mit, a math major. Um, I have experience in both the economics side of things and cs, some coding. Interested in going into probably analytics or trading in the future.Um, so I'm involved in the undergraduate study of women in math. And one of the most recent activities we've been doing involves kind of an outreach project M for middle school and high school girls where we kind of bring them together and have them all do a collaborative math event as opposed to normal competition math. So I kind of spearheaded the project to um, do that. It was originally aimed for just, you know, local, um, Boston girls. So we did all the publicizing for that. We ended up getting a lot more publicity than we expected. People came in from like California and stuff.Yep.Okay. Um, so I guess I'm also a member of China Development Initiative and so a lot of times when we run events, most of them are within our own group, so brainstorming for like service leadership programs, stuff like that. But um, we also try to do some events where we bring in professors and other speakers. So some of the biggest challenges we face include actually finding these speakers, getting them to really correspond with us. Sometimes they'll respond and be like, oh, we're interested. But then they just don't follow up. So going after them and kind of looking for that response.Okay. I would say I'm generally more of a passive person. So if someone gives me a task, I'll do it. I won't really like, if I get stuck, I'll kind of try to keep working on it myself instead of asking for help. Mhm. So I've been trying to, I guess talk to more higher ups. If I run into issues or ask more questions, I guess.Um, I think I would bring a lot to the team in terms of, um, teamwork in addition to the qualifications I have, academically speaking. Um, I guess I would say that I have a lot of experience working in teams, a m, lot of experience in the analytics side of things as well. Um, as well as a pretty interdisciplinary background in general. So I be able to bring a lot more, um, I guess directions to the team.Yeah, sure.I'm great. You? Good.Okay. Well, m, I'm a math major, but I have a lot of background in kind of different areas. So freshman year I did some work, um, at the Department of Energy, working in the CFO's office. So getting kind of a feel for the budget. Also risk major Cs. And from then on I kind of branched out more towards CS aspects. So I did a bit of coding here and there in both research aspects and also for companies.Definitely. So, um, I'm president of the Undergrad Society of Women in Math. And this basically gives me a great opportunity to kind of help a lot of underclassmen and also younger girls, so those in like high school, middle school, and kind of get them to become more active in the math community, participate in more events, even networking things. So anything with companies, but also research with professors. It's a great way to kind of help other people who haven't really seen those opportunities yet.Yeah. So last winter I was working in the Boston area at Auto Tegrity, which is like a, uh, online m marketing startup. Um, I don't know how much familiarity you have with coding like repository systems. Basically, if someone uploads their work to the server and it doesn't work, basically everyone else's stuff doesn't work either. So there's like a little column button type thing in the repo, which is called the blame button. So you can kind of blame people. So every once in a while it would occur where someone would screw up their code and that would make everyone's work stop. But instead of just blaming the one person telling them to fix their code, we would all kind of look at where it went wrong, how we could improve upon that further instead of just fixing the one person's code. So it was kind of like a group effort to see how much we could all improve from the one mistake.What would it be? I guess I would probably try to ask more questions in general. If I get directions which are really broad and I don't really know where to start searching, instead of asking my higher up, I would probably just automatically start looking at everything and kind of flailing around. Yeah, I guess it'd be good to get more to the point.Like I mentioned before, I think I have a good combination of leadership skills as well as team player abilities. But in addition to this, I'm pretty qualified. I believe in terms of both my academic classes, which I've taken, and also my extracurriculars have demonstrated that I have a deep passion for math. And aside from that, I also have many internships which have kind of honed my skills in the workplace.
P56: I'm good. Good.Well, my name's Ann. I'm currently a junior in course seven, so biology. I'm originally from San Francisco. I am interested in going to medical school and I didn't really come to this decision until around August or September of this year. I was deciding. I mean I always had it like in the back of my mind because my dad is a doctor. Um, but then I knew coming into college I wanted to study biology, but I wasn't sure if I wanted to do research or um, medical school. So um, I had a urop or I still have a urop in a Course 7 lab. And I really liked it, but I felt like research is something you have to be like very self driven to do. And I kept getting like frustrated because a lot of my experiments wouldn't work and I felt really bad about them. And then I also like volunteered at a hospital just to gain experience and see what it was like. And I enjoy helping people. I think decided for sure now medical school. Great.Um, I guess leadership can be defined in a lot of ways. I guess one of my main activities that I've been doing at MIT is um, working in a student group called ESP or the Educational Studies Program. So I teach an AP biology class on the weekends to high school students around the area. And I guess that's kind of like being a leader because you have to like stay in control of the class and organize everything.Um, I guess experience that's like most like strongest in my mind is actually from high school. So I used to be on my high school's robotics team. And um, none of us really like knew much about engineering or like building robots when we first started. So it required a lot of like teamwork and working together. Um, I remember communication was one of our main issues because we would divide into sub teams and then each sub team would work on a part of the robot. But then sometimes we forgot to communicate clearly with each other and then result in major problems later down the road. How did you resolve that problem? Um, so I guess for us it was like a ah, special, special situation because um, we were all like, my friends and I were all sophomores and then there were no upperclassmen above us on our robotics team. So our like very first year that we were the leaders of our team, we really struggled because we didn't, we had no like, prior experience in how to organize the team. So like, after our first year, like our sophomore year together, we like, like, had this like, sit down discussion afterwards and like talked about what went wrong and like, what could have been better. So the next year we, we have like, uh, we implemented like, uh, daily meetings. So like before we would like split up for the day and like work on our work on the robot. We would like outline a plan and then like show it to everyone and like discuss with everyone. That really helped. Great.Um, one of my weaknesses is I'm really shy. Like, I think when I was younger I didn't like to talk to strangers, like talking if I was a large group of people. So, um, when I came to college I thought that I should try to improve that. So I think the main thing I tried to do is the teaching activity I talked about before, um, requires me to stand in front of a group of high school students and talk for three hours at a time. So I think, um, I've become a lot more comfortable talking in front of people. I don't really know that well.I think I have the passion to help people. I have a lot of volunteer activities, but I really enjoy helping people, especially children. I used to tutor young children at the Cambridge Community center and teach them how to read. Um, and I'm currently doing the tutoring, the AP biology teaching now. Um, so I'm motivated to help people. Um, and I think that especially as the world becomes bigger or the population gets greater, more and more people need medical help. So I think being a doctor would be like a good way to help people. Great.Pretty well.Okay. Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.And do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example when there was a conflict in your team.Great. And if you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?And why do you think you should get into medical school?
P57: I'm doing very well, thanks. How are you?I'm currently a junior pursuing a degree in both computer science and business. And what's really drawn me to both of these is the fact that they involve a lot of problem solving and a lot of interpersonal dynamics. A lot of interesting questions come up where it's a lot of actually thinking innovatively. And that's why I've chosen to major in both of these. And actually that's why I'm interested in consulting, is because it's a good application of the problem solving that I'm doing in both of those.Um, recently I was in a group project where, um, each of us kind of had our own M task to do. And it was a very straightforward class project. However, M. I noticed a lack of communication, a lack of set deadlines. So, um, in that case, I kind of stepped up. I organized communication between all of us. I really got us on the same page and pushed us to reach our deadline. And, you know, it's a good thing I started when I did because otherwise we would have missed the deadline. Um, I've also had a lot of leadership positions if you want something a little bit more structured. Would you like me to tell you about one of those?Okay. Last semester, I was an event director for my sorority. And what I had to do for that, um, the biggest event, especially logistically, fell under my responsibilities. So I, with a, um, $2,200 budget, organized a dinner event for 200 people in restaurants across Boston. So this involved, um, finding places, making sure all food allergies were taken care of, really finding out what everyone in my sorority needed and wanted with their evening. And. And this also involved a lot of delegation because there are about 20 restaurants involved. I couldn't personally be in charge of all of those, so I had to delegate out to a committee, make sure they knew what was happening, manage the risk aspect of it by keeping track of who had left, who hadn't gone as yet. Everyone knew their reservations, how to get there, how to get back. So in that case, it was kind of a different style of leadership with more of delegation and things like that.Let me see. I guess the first thing that comes to mind is that same, um, item I was just talking about, where we weren't all on the same page. And not communicating. Um, I can also try to think of something else, if you don't mind giving me just a minute.So I guess in one of my classes last year, we had a team project where certain elements of it were things that none of the three of us on the team knew how to do or were particularly interested in learning how. Um, and the way we kind of resolved that issue because clearly, as an aspect, it needed to get done, we resolved that by making sure the person who took that had less responsibilities elsewhere to kind of balance it out. So the girl who took that was happy because her main priority was spending less time, whereas for the rest of us, we were more interested in the actual material. So we found a mutually agreeable, uh, solution.Yes. Um, I think one of my weaknesses is that I tend to get very excited about everything I'm doing. I'm a double major because I started in computer science. And I'm like, oh, management really excites me too. I want to do that as well. Which in the past has led me to kind of overextend myself a little bit, which as a result, when you're really excited about everything but then you try to do everything, the amount of commitment you can give to each one is reducing. But, um, conscious of that, this year I cut down a little bit on my extracurriculars, um, especially because last year, while doing all of those, I wasn't sleeping as much, which, you know, while I was still there and pulling my share and everything. You know, it's harder to be a full present member of anything if you're tired. So this year I kind of focused in on the things that were most important to me, and I'm aware of that. So when I feel myself reaching my limit, I'll actually try to prioritize more.As I mentioned before, what I'm studying in school is very applicable to consulting. But in addition to that, I'm really excited about the work that, uh, consultants do. Especially, as I mentioned, I'm very interested in a wide range of fields. And with consulting you really get to explore a lot of those, delve into them. Um, and in consulting, I get to apply my favorite aspects of computer science and management, both, which is, again, the problem solving, the thinking innovatively. These are all things that are very important to a consulting company. And that, uh, is exactly what I love to do. So I think I would have that passion and drive that makes every member of your company that I've spoken to, um, really engaging. And it seems from all my previous conversations with them that they're really excited about this, which is exactly what I would hope to bring as well.Good. Tell me more about your background.Great. Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.Do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Um, why do you think you should get the job?
P58: Good. Tell me about yourself.Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership.So you basically reset the whole thing.Tell me about the time you were working on a team and face a challenge. How did you solve that problem?Great. Can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it?And why do you think we should hire you? Someone who does something relevant to what.Good.I study ocean engineering at mit. I am a junior and I'm really interested in building robots to use in the ocean. This summer I worked on an underwater vehicle to look at sea ice in Antarctica. Great.Yes, I believe I'm a leader. Right now. Um, one of my main leadership initiatives, UM is restarting the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers at mit. And that's a group of all the ocean engineers studying at mit, including undergrads and grad students. And I'm working with other students to organize dinners with professors and outings with students interested in ocean engineering from other schools and other departments.Yes, I would say I'm a team player. This term I'm working on a team for one of my classes. A team of about seven people and we're building or manufacturing 100 yo yos together. It is actually complicated to manufacture just one yoyo if you are doing everything from scratch. Like the molds, the uh, plastic, the process times, figuring out which machines you want to use. M. Uh, we have done a yoyo. We decided to divide our team into, um, groups of two people. And each set of two people works on one part of the yoyo. So we have four parts and we were having a problem. Just last week we, um, needed to fill out a report about our yo yos, but two teams hadn't finished their part yet because they couldn't get time in the machine shop. So we decided to resolve that by we talked to the professor. I was the person who talked to the professor and asked for the extension on the report. And what was happening. We got the extension, um, and then if we wrote the report, except missing information about those two parts, and then the team working on those two parts is going to fill it in this week.Mhm. Sometimes I like to be more comfortable with my voice, like speaking louder and more confidently. And uh, sometimes when I go back home, I think of this southern accent again. Um, my family lives in D.C. but a lot of them are from the south and they speak of that twang. So then like when I came home from Thanksgiving, I had the southern twang. It sounded, um, different. And people are a little bit confused. And then I went into this middle stage. Now I'm back where I am now, maybe speaking a little bit more quieter, but without the accent. So I need to find where my voice is.Um, I am a very hard worker, and I'm very organized. I'm comfortable working with teams. I'm also on the sailing team, which is another important team I'm involved on. I'm passionate about what I do, and I can bring a lot of engineering expertise and knowledge into the group.
P59: I'm tired.Um. Alright. Go to MIT course 10 and 7. I want to be a doctor. I'm an EMT. What else is there? A little sister from. Well, I grew up in Florida, but I was born in Toronto.Uh, yeah.Um. Um, probably when I worked as an emt. You know, you're there to support your colleagues and, you know, people have to trust you if they're gonna want to call you. And that's the whole point of the service, is we want people to trust us. And, you know, taking on the extra workload, um, working as an MIT student and, you know, taking night shifts or working in between classes is pretty big responsibility. So.Um, I rode for six years, so it's obviously a team environment. Um, basically every time you show up to a race, that's a challenge, right? And I have a quote that hangs on my wall. And it's. Training is the opposite of hoping. So it's just working really hard to sort of prepare for, you know, trying to achieve your goal. Because I, uh, think only training, you know, is how you make your own fate or preparing, you know, whether it's for a test, whatever, you have to work for it. You know, things don't come very easy. So great.I am a huge perfectionist. So, you know, even stupid little trivial things that, you know, I shouldn't waste so much time perfecting, I will. So that's probably the worst thing my boyfriend tells me all the time. He's like, you have to stop expecting everything to be perfect. I'm like, I know. So, uh, just trying to, like, put things in perspective, I guess. Definitely became harder to do at mit. You know, you can't be perfect because everyone here essentially is, so. Everyone's very good at doing stuff, so.Because, I mean, I work really hard. I love it. I don't see myself doing anything else. It's weird. I'm studying chemical engineering. People are like, why are you doing that? I'm like, I. I don't know. I thought it was interesting, but I don't see myself sitting in a cubicle or behind a computer or being like a code monkey. Um, I need a career. I'm up on my feet and I love interacting with people. I love the science behind medicine and, um, being able to change someone's life. I know that's probably a pretty cliche answer, but that's the only thing that I could see myself doing and adding productively to society.Great. Tell me more about your background. More about my background. Well, I'm from Canada, but I grew up in South Florida because, you know, one day my parents just decided that it's too cold, so they literally just decided to pick up and move. So, uh, I basically lived there my whole life until I decided to come here for school. And, you know, since then, just been getting through mit, trying to do a lot of pre med things, like to volunteer, um, you know, strong family values, things like that.Yes. Because, um, everything I try and do, I, you know, always try and do the best that I can. And even if I'm not the best at it, that the effort that alone should be enough to sort of inspire someone, even if they're better at than I am. You know, seeing I find that's inspiring, you know, seeing someone trying and, you know, trying their hardest. And maybe they're not the best at doing it, but, you know, the effort that they put into something is sort of something to be looked high upon.Um, sure. So basically, almost every night when you go home with a problem set, you know, problem sets here are sort of designed to be group efforts, or at least in chemical engineering they are. And, um, often you and your group, you're working and you come to a crossroads. You know, part of the group thinks you should go one way, and part of the group thinks we should go another way. And, you know, kind of something that I've learned is you can't shut down other people's ideas. So I think something really important to do is we end up trying both ways. And, you know, maybe it takes a little bit more effort and it takes us a little bit longer, but then we know for sure. Like, you know, okay, this way definitely didn't work. And, you know, maybe this is the better way to go, but at least we didn't just diverge one way and think like, oh, maybe we should have done it another way. So I think that's pretty important.Um, I wish I was taller. No. Um, you know, I guess sometimes I always think that, you know, I'm right and, you know, it takes people some convincing. And I know I'm definitely not right all the time, but I think that's kind of, you know, like human nature. Like no one ever wants to think that they're wrong. But, uh, you know, something I've learned here is, you know, you're not always right and everyone here is pretty smart and they also have some really good ideas and it's really important to sort of take into account what others are thinking. And, you know, that's just sort of the best way to progress. At least in our work here. No one can ever finish something. For example, the problem sets like m a time for. You can't finish a problem set by yourself. You need to get input from other people. And like, becoming open minded was definitely like a challenge for me, but it's something that I've been working on and something I think I've definitely gotten a lot better at since coming to mit. Lee so.Get into medical school? Because I've been working my butt off. Um, you know, it's something that I'm very passionate about. I'm really not, I would do it for free. Like, you know, some people say they want to do medicine for the money or, you know, because it's, you know, a high powered career, but, you know, it's the only type of thing and that I see myself being satisfied with a long term career. I love being part of sort of like the medical community right now. You know, if it's my work, between being an emt, volunteering at the hospital, um, you know, working as a tech, these are all things that I would love and I would do. I am happy, you know, to wake up in the morning and go do these things. And, you know, it's my, I want to say, like, my burning passion is, you know, my drive. And you know, I think that's probably the most important thing when you're looking for a candidate for medical school or for a job. Um, it's knowing that, you know, they're not going to, you know, one day decide that they don't want to do this anymore. And they're not kind of like, eh, I'm not sure if I want to go to medical school. It's like, no, I've been wanting to do this since I was like 9 years old. And every single thing that I've done to work my way towards it, it's just made me fall in love with it even more.
P60: How are you doing today?Tell me about yourself.So tell me about the time you demonstrated leadership.Just to hear about your experience?Tell me, by the time you were working on a team and face a challenge, how did you solve that problem?Can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it.And why do you think we should hire you?Okay. How are you doing today?Tell me more about your background.Think you're a leader. Tell me why.That would be great.Do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?Yeah.And if you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be.Okay. And why do you think you should get the job?
P61: I am in aerospace engineering and a junior. I'm in naval rotc, and I'm trying to be a naval aviator.With rotc, you have a lot of different opportunities each semester. Um, depending on how old you are, you'll be a squad leader, which is where you lead about six different people. Um, now that I'm a junior, I'm admin now, which is basically where I do a lot of paperwork, and I help shape the background, um, planning for the entire design.In Unified last year, we had the airplane challenge, um, and different people had different personalities. Some wanted to be more controlling than others. Ultimately, we ended up dividing it for who had the better strengths and ultimately ended up doing really well with the project, so it was good.One of my big weaknesses would be speeches and talking around a lot of people.Well, ROTC is kind of forcing me into positions to just practice all the time. I feel that ultimately they'll.Because I'm physically qualified. I've been trained very well, and I feel every Italian has set me up to do well in the future. Great.I'm doing well, thank you.Uh, my name is Victoria McRae and I'm an aerospace engineer at MIT. I am a junior and I am in NRTC, which is a naval training program that you take during college to commission as an officer. Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why I would say I'm a leader in training at this moment, through rotc, I am put in leadership roles each semester which help build the skills towards becoming a leader.Last semester I was a squad leader in rtc, which is where you lead about six to eight people and you all have to work as a unit in order to earn honor. Squad at the end of the semester, which is dependent upon M. Our PT scores, which we have competitive PT being physical training. We have different physical competitions each week. We also have naval knowledge, quizzes, etc. And working together. Um, and we had. Sometimes the freshmen are a little. Getting used to it a little slower into getting to the swing of things. Um, and we had this one who was having issues with pt, so I helped have extra sessions to help do more physical fitness and end up doing a lot better towards the end.My command presence. Meaning sometimes I'm more quiet and it's something I have to get over and not be as shy about when I talk to others and to feel confident when I know something. And in order to fix this, I often put myself out there and try and not hide in a corner.Um. I've wanted to be a naval fighter pilot for a very, very long time. And I have been taking steps to go beyond. I'm going to be taking ground school next semester. I'm in aerospace engineering and I've gone flying a few times. And I think that through RTC and my own experiences, I will be a good candidate for that fighter pilot in the Navy.
P62: I'm good.How are you?Um, so my name is Julianne. Okay. Just so I'll know. So what. What exactly would this interview we can say?Okay.Okay.So I'm Julianne. I go down my team. Currently a junior. I'm hoping to attend the medical school that I'm applying to. Um, yeah, I'm studying computer science and biology, which is a pretty new, um, course here at mit and currently I'm taking mostly biology, uh, classes. I'm also doing research in a hematology lab. And yeah, it's a little bit about myself, um, I guess if you want to know a little bit about my background before college as well. Um, I was born in California in Irvine, um, and my m. Parents and I moved back to Taiwan when I was about 10. So I went to international school there. Um, but yeah, most of my friends were pretty bilingual. They spoke both English, English and Chinese. So I would say that I'm pretty fluent at both languages. And yeah, really look to both California and Taiwan as my homes.Okay.So I, As I said, I'm from Taiwan and I'm part of a, uh, student group here at MIT called Association of Taiwanese Students. And what I actually was was, uh, a cultural chair, um, for a year. And one of our main events is to create a night market. So, um, yeah, so instead of the outdoors night markets that you see in cities in Asia, uh, we actually took it inside into our student center. So we had to work with, um, the leadership from a bunch of different other clubs. So this included, like, the Chinese Students Club, um, Association of. Sorry, the Asian American association, as well as some other, uh, cultural clubs in order to create this event. And so what my partner and I were in charge of was the food and what we thought. We thought that this was one of the biggest, um, points of the event in the first place. So, um, yeah, I think that getting everyone, um, as a group to really sit down and look at how much money we had to allocate here and how much, uh, you know, time everybody needed to set up. Um, and yeah, so my partner and I were in charge of that. And I thought that that was one time where we really showed our leadership and made something, you know, arise out of that.A team. Um, okay, so over the summer, um, I actually, this last summer before my junior year, um, I went to Taiwan and China, taught in Hong Kong specifically to teach. And this was in groups of three. So there were two other MIT students, uh, and I teaching in a group. And so a conflict arose, um, where we had two weeks of teaching. And we weren't sure because there was also another group, another group of three teaching at the same time. And we weren't sure if the students really wanted us to switch classes so that they could get, um, more time with all of the six instructors, um, or we wanted to just stick with the same group of students for a complete two weeks. And so, you know, kind of a conflict arose out of that. Um, it was pretty much, you know, three versus three. Like, three of us wanted. We thought that it would be a good idea to switch, and the other three thought that, you know, they wanted to have more personal relationship with their students. And, um, yeah, eventually. What, you know, we sat down. At first it was pretty heated. Um, like, so two of, uh, my colleagues, like one person from my team and someone from the other, um, had, you know, really strong, strong ideas about what they wanted to do. So, you know, what I said was, hey, everybody, like, let's sit down and calm down and, you know, think this through and talk it through. And, you know, I felt like I was one of the mediators in that. You know, I didn't let myself get, you know, too involved at first. And I didn't, like, you know, start screaming or anything like that. And I was really the one that said, hey, everybody, sit down. Um, let's talk this through. And so we really just, you know, calmly and logically thought it through, talked it through, and, you know, we were like, oh, um, what would be the advantages of, um, switching and what would be the disadvantages? And in the end, we felt like the students were there to get breadth, um, and not necessarily deaf, since it was only two weeks anyway. And so we felt like it would be a lot better for them to, uh, have more exposure to all of these MIT instructors from all different backgrounds.Okay. Um, I feel like one of my greatest weaknesses is, ah, self confidence. I'm not naturally somebody who really wants to take a center stage to everything. Um, and there are people, like, some of my friends are, Are very much so people who are in the center of attention a lot. And I think that that's something I have been working on and will strive to work on in the future as well.Well, I think that, you know, I've demonstrated a lot of, um, I have a lot of experience in the medical field. Um, as a college student, um, I do research in, as I said, a hematology lab. And I actually also work as an emt. So that's been a very, very large, big part of my life since, um, last January when I got my emt, ems, um, license. And yeah, so I actually work here at MIT, um, as an emergency medical technician. I work probably 15 hours a week on that. But more so beyond my experience, I really have a passion for the medical field, um, and I want to see how both the research that I do and hopefully in the future some clinical, the clinical work that I do, um, will affect the medical field.Right.Tell me why.Can you give me an example of.In your team and you had to resolve it?You were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Great.
P63: Pretty good. How are you?Alright, um, I guess to start with the basics, I'm a junior at mit. Right now, um, I'm studying course six three, so computer science. And uh, I guess I didn't really get into computer science until last year. And um, that's after I transferred here from the University of Michigan. And then since then pretty much everything I do has been computer science. Awesome.All right, um, so this past, this past summer, um, I got. Well I guess last year I got involved with an organization on campus called Chem Kessim. And so Camp Kessim runs a camp for the children of cancer patients. And um, it's kind of a therapeutic camp. So the aim is for kids to just have fun. And anyway we have various units that we break the kids up into that are divided up by age. And um, I wasn't the unit leader for my unit but uh, there was a time when our unit leader had to go off and uh, it was either his break or he had to go off and take care of some other stuff. And so uh, I was kind of given control of the unit and so um, it was an interesting experience because we were dealing with kids. But um, obviously the counselors are adults and college students, my peers. So um, there's this kind of flip flopping between interacting with my peers and making sure that they were on top of their, you know, their job as counselors, watching the kids and making sure the kids are having fun and also like playing around with the kids and making sure the kids are like not thinking about anything but having a good time. So I guess should it kind of answer the question?Alright, um, so uh, the last time I can really remember being part of a really intense team experience was um, in high school I was on the yearbook as a photographer. And so um, we, my friend and I were both the head photographer. So we organized all the photos and so we would coordinate with the editors, um, in that they would tell us what sort of content we needed, like what events needed to have photos taken of them or like what teams needed photos. And then we would go about organizing the actual um, like the sending of photographers to these events or to get the team photos. And so um, there were times where like just getting, making sure that our photographers got to events, um, and ended up getting like a decent amount of good photos, um, was. Could be fairly challenging. M. Because I mean we were all busy students and so um, one like just, I guess one challenge that we faced was just getting people to like really commit to their job and follow through on that. And so part of what we did was just try to build a really strong like team culture and just a sense of like camaraderie among the photographers themselves and um, you know, try to get people to um, like try to get people to go to events even when they weren't assigned, just out of like eagerness to take photos and learn photography. And so um, we kind of approach this challenge in motivating. Like it was sort of a challenge in motivating our um, peers and so um, or like incentivizing the taking of photos. And we approached it by just trying to like build a uh, sense of community and like ambition in terms of taking photos. Um, it was, it ended up playing out pretty well. But there were still a couple photographers who just, you know, they just didn't want to do the job sometimes. I mean they usually had like somewhat valid excuses, but that's inevitable. Yeah, but in that like this job still needs to get done. Yeah, I mean that was a uh, pretty interesting team experience.Sure, yes. Let's see. Um, maybe one of my, I'd say one of my weaknesses is communicating my thoughts clearly. Uh, at times I struggle to quickly come up with uh, a sentence or phrase, describe what I'm thinking. And so I find myself kind of like slowly articulating a sentence. And um, there are some situations where just like that, those pauses and that kind of slow thinking or slow articulation, uh, can be problematic. In other situations like the slow thinking ends up being somewhat useful because I've, you know, I don't say anything, I don't tend to say anything rash. And so um, I mean it has its merits but usually it's just in general it's nicer to have a faster pace of kind of like conveying thoughts.Um, I'd say I'm a committed, hard working and in terms of this job I guess M. Can I describe what it is?So in my head it's a software engineering position and so I believe as, um, I can contribute a lot to this with the skills that I've gained here at mit. And then also I believe that I can gain a lot m from the company in terms of learning, um, about what they do and how they do it. And, um, I think it would be a good partnership.Okay. Nice to be able to walk and have you two radio tours?Yeah, yeah, same here. So can you tell me a bit about your background?Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.That makes sense. Do you consider yourself a team player?Could you give me an example of a time you were on a team and you faced a challenge?What were you solving?Uh, so if you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would that be?So now think of a job that you'd like to have.So what do you think you should get this job?Well, thank you. This concludes the interview. It's great meeting m.
P64: So my name is Andrei. Uh, I'm naturally from Russia. I've grown up in Finland though and I normally go to Cambridge University which is where I study. Here I am a foreign exchange program with mit. I uh, study course six. Um, mainly I focus my interests, split them more like uh, between um, electrical engineering where I focus more on device physics like nanoelectronics, uh, processing methods, um, circuits and also stuff that has to do with uh, things like AI control, machine learning, um, which is what I'm quite interested in. I've been taking courses to that ah, goal. So things like 6.034-615-267, 19, um, in those same uh, areas I've done several projects. Um, like. So in Cambridge over summer I did a, I wrote a simulator. Um, the simulator basically simulates a landing on Mars and has to take into account realistic physics, um, graphics, planetary rotation, um, and I have to write in AI which accounts for all that and is able to land and launch an aircraft, uh, spacecraft. Um, similarly I've also been participating in a robotics competition in Cambridge. Um, it was similar to MIT's mass lab. And um, I was on the software team again although uh, I helped out a bit with electronics. And the goal of that project was to in a team of six, create a robot which is able to navigate a black, A uh, white grid on a black table, um, and be able to pick up a cylinder thing with a magnet or without a magnet and based on whether it uh, is magnetic or not, take it to a certain box. And I have programmed the AI for that. So that's most of the experience I've had um, in Cambridge here. Uh, I've been considering participating in things like uh, um, baffle code or Maslot perhaps. Um, there's been some quite interesting projects going on in class. That's all been quite interesting.Yeah, I hear it's pretty good.Um, so, um, again in the robotics project uh competition at Cambridge, um, in our team of six, I had to in some ways help out and direct the design choices in our um, for the competition. Uh, some things include deciding which sensors to be placed and where. And kind of the overarching idea was that basically because I'm writing the AI, I have to um, have a clear idea of what the robot has to do, what its capabilities are. And I uh, was the one to be the go to guy in case somebody had to make a decision based on that. And I made Decisions uh, just based on rationality where uh, if something was. The idea is that something has to be um, only as complicated as it needs to be and no more complicated because any other complications make problems, stuff doesn't work, breaks. Um so yeah and I also helped out with the electronics and sometimes they weren't sure which um, sensors to hook up to which control lines and stuff like that. And I had to advise them on um, what I wanted to be done for the AI to work properly. Um, another case of leadership I guess would be. So I did military service in Finland as a citizen. And um, so we had this at the end of the service, near to the end there was an um, anti air camp where all the anti air regiments and battalions of Finland come together in this one big training camp. And as ah, a member of the communications squad, um, we had to go and set up some things for the live fire exercises. And because our sergeant was away doing some things, I don't really know what he's doing but I had to take charge of the squad and make sure that the cables were done right and I had to delegate tasks to certain people that these two guys do this cable and these guys set up the radios and I'll do this. So yeah it was quite alright I guess that way.Um, well with six people, uh, we split ourselves into three teams, three sub teams. Uh, one was mechanical, one was electrical and one was uh, AI. Now because my programming experience was much bigger than the programming experience of the other guy on my team, um, we decided that it would be better if he was to help out with the mechanics because there's a lot of um, hand work to be done. Ah, a lot of design work there. And the AI is easily written by me when I uh, just have a clear idea it's much faster than splitting related people. It was a rather simple AI I guess. Um, now with the mechanics it's much more important that they get all this stuff done. They spend time in the workshop work. So that was a decision we had to make. Um, to delegate more of that hand work to the mechanical team and more manpower to the mechanical team. With uh, the electrical team, um, we decided that uh, there would be one guy doing most of the um, design work for the electronics because he had a better idea ah, and the other guy would be doing most of the soldering of the electronic parts. So we got uh, some basic components. We got this controller block, um, with a CPU inside. But it had to be wired to sensors and controllers and motor controllers and all that. And we had to do all of those circuits. Um, so one of the guys, uh, Oscar, um, was much more into that. So he took charge into design and uh, Calvin much more of the soldering and stuff. And I kind of helped out when they needed some help. Um, so yes, we decided to just delegate, have a clear delegation of tasks and just did our bit and tried to make sure that when somebody needed something done, we'd be able to produce a kind of working ish result. So they'll be able to test stuff out of purchase. Yeah. So as an example, uh, I made a control system, uh, which follows the lines way before I wrote any of the code for picking up stuff or testing what it is and how to choose where it goes. The idea was that I am able to follow a line and turn. Um, which is kind of tricky actually because of the way the sensors are set up and because the motors weren't actually properly balanced and such. Um, so the mechanical guys managed to rig together, um, a quick rig with just some of the basic plates that didn't cut them or anything. Just got a plate, put some motors on, hooked up the motors directly to the CPU and did that and it worked. I was able to make the AI which follows the lines, which is pretty good. Um, also that did mean that um, Oscar who made the sensor connectors, he um, had to kind of work faster and make those particular circuits work before he made any of the other control circuits. But by delegating those things that way we were able to do step by step and do it gradually.Um, I guess one of my weaknesses is I often get carried away, um, I guess somewhat arrogantly, um, when I'm working on something and I may think that I have a really good idea of what I'm doing. Um, somebody's better than other people. Like have a better idea of wondering than other people and therefore try to tell them that maybe they're doing it slightly wrong or be sort of somewhat, um, more self absorbed in what resources need to be allocated. Because I feel like um, I'm doing a lot of stuff and that they might be doing it more slowly so I can use this for longer or something. Um, not to the point of insulting people but more kind of a center of attention, kind of thing, I guess. Um, I'm trying to be more mindful of what other people are doing and sometimes that even though I think I have an idea of what I'm doing, I don't actually. Or that I might be mistaken. So I try to be more chill and laid back and just. Yeah. Um, so, yeah, but it's a work in progress, definitely.Um, well, you should hire me because I'm capable of pretty, uh, good verbal communication. Um, I don't really stress out much, I think. Um, so I'm quite, uh, relaxed that way. I'm able to speak three languages, so I'm able to communicate quite well. Uh, nor Finnish and English. And I tend to be quite good at being able to delegate tasks to people. So I'd be good for project lead, I guess. Um, because I have pretty good technical backgrounds. I understand the tech and I quite enjoy working with the tech. But I also like, uh, being in a team environment where we can delegate tasks and work on, um, different things on something we can't accomplish by ourselves on a larger project. And working on a team is quite fun if it works out right.Um, so my name is Andre. Um, I come from Finland. I've studied for two years at Cambridge University in England where I did all sorts of engineering for the first two years. But I chose to specialize in electrical engineering and information technologies. Currently I'm on an exchange year abroad to MIT doing course six. And at MIT I'm specializing in artificial intelligence, machine learning support vector machines and also device physics and some digital electronics. Um, specifically in the area of device physics and digital electronics I'm looking at RISC processors as well as uh, micro and nanoscale, uh, semiconductor devices such as transistors, specifically ballistic transistors which operate at the smallest possible limit. Um, in the area of AI, I have undertaken ah, certain competitions, uh, which I have been uh, lucky to win. Um, in the first one I had to write a simulator where um, I wrote an AI to control a spacecraft which is supposed to be able to land and take off from Mars. And during that I had to take into account planetary rotation, gravity, wind, atmospheric effects, uh, aerobraking and all those things. So it was a pretty complex AI to be able to handle all that. Also I undertook a competition at uh, Cambridge in a team of six, we had to build an autonomous robot which is able to navigate a grid and pick up an object and put it in the appropriate box and there I um, was a team lead where I managed the team until I did the tasks. And also I wrote the AI uh for that.Um, I think I have pretty good leadership qualities mainly uh, because I'm able to think uh, on a longer scale at what has to be accomplished, uh, and be able to delegate tasks to people to achieve intermediate goals which will be modular to the achievement of the uh, long term goal. So for example in the um, robotics project we had uh, our ultimate goal was to build a chassis, build electronics, build an AI and have the robot win this competition. But uh, we didn't go from like scrap metal to that in one go. Uh, we had to look at specifically first I had to write an AI which was, sorry, the bit of the AI which is able to follow white lines on a black surface and um, turn at uh, the junctions of those lines. Um, the electronics guys to that end had to uh, make some circuits which uh, connect the um, infrared line flowing sensors to the kind of main cpu, the ARM core cpu. Um, so there was some circuit elements involved and the mechanics guys had to pretty much just make a test chassis for us. Um, but all that took some organizing because they were busy in the workshop, so they didn't have much time to play around with, um, you know, other, uh, things. And the electronics, uh, guys had to, um, also schedule the time correctly.Uh, so one of the challenges in the robotics competition in the specific team was that we often had to share resources, which were limited among other teams and also among the people in the team. Um, one of the resources, if I may say so, which had to be shared in our team was myself because I was a bit of the project lead. So I had to give some advice and also, um, sort out some technical points with both the electronics and the mechanics teams and also had to write my own AI. So I had to kind of bounce between the two and manage my time. So what I would try to do was I would tell them, uh, that we would work out some sort of specific issue of like sensor connections with the electrical, uh, team. Uh, and I would say, okay, guys, so you're going to build this now and how long does this go take? And they'll say, I don't know, this will take us a, uh, couple hours. And then I would have the time to maybe for half an hour go down to the workshop where the machine mechanical team are playing around and I would talk to them and say what they're doing and how far apart do they want the wheels or something, uh, for the turning to be efficient or where do you want the balance? Because we, uh, faced an issue if we put too much, um, weight on the back of the robot might tip over. So we had to fix that issue. But, um, once I had the two teams working, uh, I was able to go back and quickly, um, write some code. So the issue was that I needed to kind of give advice from time to time. Um, and I think I did that by delegating tasks pretty well.Um, I think I would try to become more succinct in how I speak and more engaging to people because often I find that, um, I come up sometimes a bit geeky or dorky. Uh, and some people might not take to that as easily. And as a team lead, you have to be both inspiring and charismatic. Um, I mean, some great examples, I mean, I guess as a cliche, is kind of like Steve Jobs where he's amazingly inspiring, he's very good at talking to people but he's also um, I wouldn't be able to say that he's kind of boring to listen to uh, while at the same time he is quite, you know, quite the geek being you know, in charge of Apple and you know thinking about how to play with all these really cool toys. So striking a balance like that where you kind of, you're able to have the fun with the tech and also be uh, kind of serious um, but not boring seriously. Um, so I tried to strive towards that direction uh, if I could. Interesting.I think being a project leave in a robotics design team or uh, electronic product design team, uh, would be really great fun. Especially if I was also able to participate in the technical side and not only the managerial side. Um, because being on the managerial side would allow me to uh, be able to set the direction uh, in some way which I enjoy doing and also manage the uh, sub teams and how things will get done. But at the same time being uh, on the technical side it's just fun to play around with all this really cool tech and build it especially. It's quite rewarding. So I think I have the technical background for the technical part. Um, I've done my programming, I've done my uh, AI courses, my electronics courses. So I know that pretty well and I have the experience uh, of working in a team and being a team lead, uh, to know how to manage a small but efficient team.Thank you.
P65: Yeah, pretty good. Um, don't feel particularly different from any other day.Um, so I'm from near Belfast in Northern Ireland. I have three younger brothers, so I think they have kind of influenced me probably as much as I've influenced them. Like Mark, the next one down, um, he's only a year younger than me, so he was always a lot sportier. Um, coming up through school, he was playing rugby and cricket and everything. Because of that, I got into those sports. Um, and then Ian, the next one down after him, he's a lot more artsy and stuff. So I think because of his influence, I'm kind of a bit more appreciative of things that I would have maybe just kind of dis, like, disregarded before. Um, like when I was down in New York, there, we went to moma, and, um, there was like, um, the Scream by Munch or Munch or whatever, which was there, and some Van Gogh, Starry Night and some Lilies by Monae. So I wouldn't really be too fussed with that. But I was like, you know what? Ian will probably want to hear about this, so I'll go and I'll take some photos while, um. And then Harry's the youngest one. He's kind of like, just gets away with everything, being the youngest. But she'd, um, be pretty good to get back home on Christmas and catch up with them and stuff. Probably not get back over to Cambridge in the UK with Christmas break. But I've been trying to keep in contact with friends from there, uh, through, like, Facebook and stuff. M. And, yeah, just really enjoying my time here at the minute. It's a little bit of background on me and my family.Uh, so this. I'm here in my third year, what you call junior year. So my first two years in Cambridge, I was part of, like, the student council for the college that I'm in there, Robinson College. So as, um, part of that, we do a, uh, big. We call it Freshers Week, or as you used kind of call it Freshman Rush, dorm exploration, whatever. M. So we had a big, kind of end of that week, finale event that took over college, like multiple music stages, um, the legal drinking age in uk as you attend. So everyone at university could drink. So there's different promotions on different, um, bars about the place in the college, different attractions and stuff. So just kind of planning that, deciding what the theme would be, how we were going to decorate up the college to tie in with that um, um liaison getting music acts, uh, um, getting promotions on in the main bar, um, uh, just making sure like we recovered health and safety wise in terms of enough kind of stewards, fire extinguisher points, emergency plans, um, obviously working as part of a committee on that. But then um, being responsible for individual sections, particularly on the night, being responsible for a particular area, uh, I think that's quite a practical hands on time when I've been given leadership and I think I've done quite well with it.It was, yeah.Right, uh, so um, again um, thinking back to back Cambridge in the uk one of the things that Cambridge is known quite well for is ruining. And um, so I got to Cambridge and I was like oh I've never tried rowing before, I'll take this up. So um, in my first year there was me and a few of my friends took it up and um, we continued it into our second year but one of our friends then decided that he didn't have time for it and he was gonna kind of drop it by the wayside. But we had the big kind of races there are towards the end of the summer term the called the May Bumps. And um, obviously any kind of sport teamwork is important but in rowing like so much of it is just getting in time with each other and working as one and it takes like the whole year to build up this. So him deciding to pull out that late was really going to be massively detrimental because you can get someone to sub in and fill a seat but it's not the same. Um, so convincing him to stay on as part of the team and um, kind of rallying like getting a good boat spirit that we weren't just yet guys who kind of rowed. But we all got along well and we actually wanted to row for each other because uh, I'd been given responsibility as boat captain so not like the overall boat club captain but captain of that boat. So um, doing things like having pre uh race meals together, um, watching like uh, video clips beforehand, um like kind of motivational rocky style stuff um, and just making sure that like we were training hard but people were enjoying training and um, it was the right kind of balance between yeah we need to train at this level to be good but we don't need to go absolutely overboard and we can gauge when people just need time off or need time to unwind or de stress. So kind of implementing that. And then it came around to the actual bumps races. He hadn't quit, um, and we managed to do a lot better than we had the previous term. Previous term had been a bit of a disaster. And then this term we were actually the best boat from the college. So that was pretty satisfying. Um, and again, it just kind of shows like, the races are painful and tough, but you work together, you get through them, you feel good after. So that was like a pretty obvious sporting example of teamwork.I think overall I'm, um, quite confident and um, happy to talk to people and stuff. But maybe a weakness could be that I do sometimes dive into things a little too eagerly. Like, um, it could almost be that I could become better at these kind of interviews by just having the, that extra bit of confidence to just sit there quietly for 20, 30 seconds, think what the question actually specifically asked, and then answer it rather than thinking, okay, they've stopped talking, I better start. And just diving into an answer. Um, I'm coming across then as perhaps a bit frantic or not completely focused. So I think something like that is just going to be practice. Do interviews get comfortable with sitting with a little bit of silence while I compose my thoughts and then go into, uh, a well structured answer rather than just diving straight in the answer, as I've kind of been doing.Um, I think that, uh, obviously to hire someone, they need to have the qualifications that are going to allow them to do well in the job. But almost any job, um, in today's world isn't going to be specifically tied down to one individual sector. It's going to require skills across a variety of disciplines. And I feel that I've used my university time so far in the UK and in America, really broadening, um, the experience that I've got, broadening my, uh, exposure to different, uh, fields of engineering and also using the really quite amazing Haas program you have here to broaden my exposure to even like, artsy stuff. And I also think that through projects and lab work and, um, things of that nature, I have the skills to work in a team. Be that, uh, uh, having the kind of humility to accept that, okay, there's someone more experienced, more knowledgeable than me, than this. Um, I'll, um, take the lead from them or also realizing when it's an appropriate time that, okay, I'll take the lead here because, because no one else is really going to or I'm the best qualified to really take command. So I think like, uh, in terms of working with others, that's a strength I have. Um, and I think in terms of contributing to the overall atmosphere in the company, uh, I'm quite a pleasant, optimistic person. I like to think that I'm someone that others would be happy to work around. So not only would I be working well, but others would be working well, um, through my being there. I'm not saying like I'm going to suddenly make the company like 200% more profitable, but I do think that I'll feed back in as much benefit as I'll get out of a job that I would genuinely enjoy.Okay, thank you. Cool.Um, so I'm obviously not from the States as the accent gives away. I'm from a um, smallish town called Carrickfergus near Belfast in Northern Ireland. I just went to a local primary school there, which is the equivalent of elementary school, um, for people this side of the pond, uh, and then like a local high school. And was encouraged in my penultimate year to consider applying to Cambridge, which was something I hadn't really thought was something appropriate for me. I kind of uh, just envisaged going to one of the Northern Irish universities, maybe one of the Scottish ones. So I applied to Cambridge and luckily they seemed to think that I was suitable. So I've uh, spent the last two years there studying engineering and then the opportunity came up to spend my junior year here in the States. So I went for that immediately. Um, I've been moving into specialism of aerospace engineering, uh, just because I've always kind of been interested in space. And um, um, it would be quite like a personal ambition m to be somehow involved in future space exploration, um, in terms of actually like designing the stuff and um, helping to actually deliver it. So ideally that's where I see my kind of professional career path going. Aside from that stuff, I'm quite into sport. Like I have three younger brothers so we'd often play sports together, particularly rugby, cricket, um, soccer. But uh, I have got into the American ones since being here. Um, basketball, it's probably the one that was least aware of before I got here, but I've managed to get tickets for a uh, Celtics Timberwolves game tomorrow night. So that should be good fun. And um, was at Fenway Park I think in my second week here or something for a Red Sox game. So immersing myself in the American culture. Definitely enjoying my time here.Yeah.Um, yes, I think that I have the self confidence to be a leader. I'm someone who's happy enough to uh, stand in front of others and uh, put their head on the block as the scionist make a decision and uh, accept that if it doesn't go terribly well, the consequences will come back. I can't just pass the blame on. Uh, I think this is self evident in positions I've held so far in my university time in the UK where I was on the student council for my college, Robinson College in Cambridge for both my freshman and sophomore years. Um, two different positions. But Both of them elected in competitive elections. Obviously my peers think that I'm uh, suitable leadership material. Um, as I alluded to in my previous response, sports is another big part of my life. And in that I've had um, captaincy roles with school rugby and then college rugby and also college rowing. So I feel that I the experience of having been a leader before and I have the confidence to lead others while also realizing at the same time that there will be others in the group that have strengths that I don't have. So, um, I am humble enough to realize that and hopefully get the best out of others by not insisting that the way that uh, I've initially thought to approach the problem is the only solution. You can be a leader, a very good leader by listening to suggestions that others have and uh, being able to discern which are implementable and which are maybe to put on the. Let's leave that for now path. So, yeah, I would feel that I'm a good leader.Yeah, so the obvious examples here would be sport and achievements and stuff. But I think just to add a bit of variety, I'll go down a different route. In the uk, we still have a monarchy, uh, one of the few countries that do. And um, the Queen's husband, rather than being king is the Duke of Edinburgh. I'm not sure why he doesn't get to be a king, but anyway. M. So there's a scheme called the Duke of Edinburgh's Award which is aimed at uh, 16, 17, 18 year olds. Uh, there are three tiers to it, bronze, silver and gold. So I've um, completed all of them. I have set up the gold and um, in order to do this, a big part of the people who undertake the scheme that they remember is the expedition element. Um, you go somewhere you haven't been before with Ordnance Survey maps, compass, tents, trangia, uh, and enough food supplies for like four days. Um, you follow a predetermined route, but obviously you have to uh, like deal with unexpected realities. If there's flooding and suddenly a path is no longer a viable transport option, you've got to reroute yourselves around that. If a campsite is too exposed and there's unseasonably high winds, you need to decide on a different sleeping point for that night. So we did our gold expedition in the summers between my penultimate and Final years of high school, we travelled across to the Lake District in England, which is a very nice area of natural beauty, mountains and lakes and um, small villages, um, and um, quaint countryside things. And we spent four days, three nights, um, hiking our way around in really glorious weather. Um, inevitably there were times where things didn't quite go to plan. One big occasion was when we encountered another group that was lost and um, quite hysterical at the fact that they were lost and ah, thought they were never going to be found. Um, so we then made the decision that we would uh, detour from our route in such a way to get these uh, other hikers to the nearest town where they could then contact people they knew in the area and um, pretty much get themselves back into familiar surroundings, calm them down, make sure they were okay, and then go on to our planned overnight destination. Um, to be honest, I did quite enjoy that experience, getting to feel slightly like a hero. Um, and um, that was a time when we did have to ensure we worked as a team. One of us couldn't have dealt with it all by themselves because there were five hysterical people. All their backpacks and equipment, they were tired, they weren't feeling like carrying it anymore. We had to distribute that extra load between ourselves and uh, make sure we didn't lose any of them on the way from where we found them to where we were ultimately going to um, drop them off in the nearest village. The whole expedition was really um, uh, a big example of teamwork keeping each other motivated to keep going, um, going at the pace of the slowest individual so that people weren't left behind, uh, but encouraging each other so that the slowest individual didn't unduly slow down the group. But it was a massively enjoyable experience as well and something that I recommended to my younger brothers to do during their time at school. So that would have been one major teamwork activity, I'd imagine.I think the one thing that really seems to set me aside that I noticed between me and um, a lot of my friends and brothers is that I could probably benefit from caring a little more about my outward appearance. Um, not that I think I dress particularly scruffily or anything, but just things like I don't really mind leaving the house in the morning with my hair still super wet from the shower, um, just for like jeans and T shirt and stuff. M. Whereas I know that uh, like two out of three of my brothers worry about straightening their Hair, which I don't agree with at all. But if I had a little bit more maybe care towards things like yeah, just making sure my hair isn't really messy when I leave the house, that that would probably be uh, a small benefit given that even though there's the saying don't judge a book by its covers, people inevitably make decisions as soon as they see you. And um, they can't have heard you, they can't have got to know you. What they have to base it on is what they see before them. So perhaps if I was a little more self conscious of my appearance that uh, could be something I could improve.Yes. Okay.I uh, think this is the kind of job in which job satisfaction can be the greatest benefit. Um, if it is something that is genuinely interesting to you. And as I've said before, I've just such a deep rooted interest in space, space exploration and um, just really pushing the limits of what we can achieve. I feel that this kind of job is one that I would just get up in the mornings really thrilled to get into work and do my part towards contributing towards it. Um, I realize that it's also the kind of job where projects are so vast, uh, ranging that there is going to be inevitable variety. And that's not something that would scare me. That's something that I would be really drawn in by. The fact that I get to challenge myself in various different ways. Novel situations that I perhaps haven't encountered before. And with that the opportunity to work with lots of other professionals who are equally um, well established within the field that you really are getting to work with the best of the best. And that can only help improve me as ah, a uh, professional, as a business person. Um, I think above anything else such as the inevitable prestige and um, um, the financial benefits, just the job satisfaction this would bring to me. The fact that I can easily see this being something that will interest and keep me coming back for more for the length of a career. Um, ah, uh, that would be the key reason that I think I would just really enjoy the job, therefore be able to put my best into it to get the best out of others around me and ultimately give the company the best chance of success.Thanks for allowing me to come in.Uh, it turned out okay. I think it was a case of the group that we encountered was all female and they were about that kind of 17, 18 year old, uh, age range. So that may have been the reason for the hysteria. If there'd been some guys there they maybe would have calmed them down a bit. But yeah, we got them down into the uh, nearby village, got to like uh, public voting because our school was quite strict, didn't allow us to take mobile phones which uh, is probably a good thing. They just would have distracted us so used an old fashioned payphone and got their leaders to come and meet them. Uh, as far as I know they were fine. In the end we completed our expedition, got the award and enjoyed it.No, ours wasn't um, quite like that in that ah, we knew it was coming to, we would plan ahead. In terms of you took food supplies, you took clothing to deal with different weather, you took tents and transients for cooking stuff.Slight difference there but interesting. I imagine it was still something you look back on, you see the benefit of.
P66: I'm doing pretty good. How about you?Excellent. Yeah, it's kind of shitty outside. Well, I brought an umbrella, so it's not too bad. Yeah, I thought it was gonna snow, but so I guess I'll take like drizzle for that.So I'm a junior, obviously, here at mit. I'm studying chemical biological engineering and minoring in economics. Um, I live in Capsigma, which is one of the fraternities. Fraternities on Amherst Avenue, next to Connor. I'm from Chicago, actually. Was just home recently for Thanksgiving. Um, and then here on campus I obviously go to class. I'm not a huge fan of class. I do though, like getting involved in my fraternity as well as, um, I'm in charge of heifer's humanity here, so I do a lot with them. Um, and some community service stuff that we have as well. So.Where?Okay. I'm from Skokie, so.Exactly where you're at. Exactly. Cool.So if I had to give, I guess, an example of leadership, um, recently this semester I'd probably talk about, um, with Habitat for Humanity. Like I mentioned before, I'm, um, currently the president of the club. And so we do a couple different things on campus here, both on and off campus, um, related to like the international organization. And so one of the big things we do on campus is we, um, have what we call the Beaver Dash. And it's a 5K run around the, uh, west end of campus. And, uh, we've done about five of them now. And so this year, um, since I was in charge of the club, I had to organize it. And it was kind of a unique situation because we were working with the president's office, combining, uh, with President Greif's inauguration. Actually they contacted me, um, which was awesome because, like, they have a ton of money and a lot of resources that I normally wouldn't have. So I was able to work with them. But I think it was a really interesting leadership position, uh, because I was coordinating my own Exec, which is 10 students who I work with, as well as the greater club, which is a couple hundred people who kind of actively participate, but then also in conjunction with the president's office, which was a couple people, and then a few people in, uh, staff, um, with like the, uh, Z Center and Daeper and things like that. And so we were all kind of working together to organize this larger than normal event in conjunction with other activities going on that weekend. So it definitely took some going to meetings with like, of staff and more important people in the world of mit, as well as then relaying messages and working with my own board, um, and getting stuff done and then boothing to sell tickets and then the actual running of the event and coordinating of, uh, volunteers and things like that. So I think it was a really good leadership opportunity and really allowed me to interface with a lot of different people.Let's think of a good challenge. Okay. So, um, more recently I was working as, like I said, I'm involved with my fraternity. And so in my fraternity I'm currently a vice president. And one of. Excuse me. Um, my objectives was actually, uh, to plan, like, a little retreat that we have, um, where we go camping and stuff like that. And so as part of that, um, I work with a, uh, team of people. Some of them are freshmen, which is kind of who the retreat was meant for, but some of them are other classmen as well. Not my friend. I mean, everyone's my friend. But so it's like a interesting dynamic because you're working with your friends, but you have to kind of be managing them and stuff like that. So that was, I guess, challenge number one. But then the real challenge was, uh, to coordinate. Um, essentially, like, we have 60 people and we wanted to go camping somewhere so get those 60 people there. And then I think the real challenge we faced was, um, getting people to commit and to, like, count accurate numbers and stuff like that. And so, um, I was able to, like, kind of, within the context of the team, utilize different people, um, to like, actually personally go and talk to, like, all 60 people so we could get a feel for, like, who was actually coming. Because, like, an issue we had had in the past, um, was like, 50 people would say, for sure they're gonna come. And then on the day of, 40 people would. And then those 10 people are actually, like hundreds of dollars you're wasting. And so it was really important to get an accurate account, get people to realize the importance of commit, and also to get certain information on, like, who had, like, dietary restrictions, who needed, who were camping. So, like, who had sleeping bags and who didn't, and things like that. And, um, like, traditionally it is really nice to do, like, just like, emails, um, to get all that. But here uh, we're really utilizing talking to people and like, having meetings together and breaking out and talking to individuals and then doing allocation of who was going to call the various, uh, utilities, whether it be car rental or food purchase and stuff like that. So there's a lot of different allocation of tasks and then individual talking of people. And so those kind of overcame those different challenges we had to face.Yeah. Um, so I would say my greatest weakness currently, um, um, the best way I guess to phrase it would be I feel like I need to be very involved in the things I do, whether they be like a. I mean, if I'm doing a pset, it's me by myself. So it kind of makes sense that I'm involved if I'm doing a project or if I'm leading an activity or something. Um, I feel like I need to kind of like, be very on top of what's going on, which is of course a good thing. You obviously, if you're in charge of something or involved with something, want to be aware of what's happening. Um, but I think, uh, my current weakness is that leads me to not allocate enough to other people and also to then like, consequently stress myself out and possibly not have as good of a final product because I've taken too much on, um, for myself. And so that's obviously a weakness. And, um, what I've kind of been currently doing to, um, counter it is, um, uh, really working on, um, finding like, especially like, m friends of mine who I can like, confide this in and like, talk to about, like, asking them to like, kind of overview some of the, like, projects that I'm leading. And also, especially if they're involved in it, like, very specifically delegating stuff to them. And m working on, uh, kind of like, not doing as much and not being invested in many things and trusting others to do stuff and get the job done and like, setting very specific deadlines for when I will, like, let someone work without checking in and things like that, um, to really promote, like, letting them go do their own thing and not concerning myself with it, obviously responsibly, but, like, at the same time, um, to better allocate tasks and not overburden myself.Okay, got it. Uh, sure.So, um, I think I bring a lot to the table as a candidate for this position. Um, having been here for two and a half years at mit, I've had the opportunity, um, to do a lot of, gain a lot of technical skills. Of course I've taken classes, I've done M laboratory research. I've worked on various projects through those classes. And so I think I have a lot of technical skills. Um, and in this position at this company would really have the ability to take those and um, start applying them and combining them. More importantly with the other skills I picked up here, which have been leadership and communication skills. Um, because Grant and other kind of have been in separate realms, I do a lot of activities on campus where I've had the opportunity to plan events or be a leader in various things. Um, and to be able to kind of take that and then put those skills towards like a technical related problem, which I would be able to do at this company and really hone both of those together, I would think would be very advantageous to me and very advantageous to you as the company, um, and really allow me to kind of show off, uh, the different abilities I've learned here.Yeah, so, um, I'm a student here at mit. I'm, um, in my third year as a junior and I'm studying chemical biological engineering with a minor in economics. And so as part of that I've taken coursework in transport processes, thermodynamics, chemical biological processes and things like that. And also some macro micro public policy classes with the econ. And then I've also done research in a, uh, chemical engineering laboratory here for a year and a half studying yeast, um, and different ways of doing transcription factors and how they relate then to promoter architecture and the dynamics that are behind that. So a lot of bio, but with some chemical engineering applications. And I also did some research this past summer in a systems biology lab in Madrid, Spain. So a little more biology related. So that's most of my technical background.Yeah, so I definitely think I'm a leader. And that's actually something that's come to define. A lot of my time here at MIT has been leadership. Um, and so I think I'm a leader both because of the actions I've taken and also the mindset I have in those actions. I guess both of those things are important. So to give an example, um, I'm currently in a position of leadership in a club on campus, our Habitat for Humanity club, where I serve as the president of the club. And I think I started off as a freshman just um, participating. I really like community service, so I volunteered with them a bit to go help build houses in the Boston Cambridge area. And then I was fairly proactive which led me to start organizing those bills that I was going on. I figured I was benefiting from them, so I wanted to be able to give back and organize them. So I ran for the exec of Heptath for Humanity here and started helping organize them. And then from there I went on to want to do more. And so now I'm president and run the exec and get to do that, everything that the club does. And so, um, I think that kind of drive and that desire to move up and give back and contribute and also make things happen definitely is characteristic of a leader. And obviously the position I'm currently in is one that demands leadership. So I think that's just one illustrative example of why I think I'm a leader.Yeah. So I definitely think I'm a team player and I think MIT especially is really conducive to teamwork. But I'll look at a example of, um, teamwork that uh, relates actually to. I'm also involved in leadership in my fraternity. And so as a part of that m, we have a five person exec that uh, I wasn't on to begin with. But, uh, I've now wanted to take on more leadership help out. And so I'm currently on it. And so as a part of that five person exec, um, we've had to do a lot of teamwork. There's five of us. My fraternity has 70 people, so it's fairly large and it requires a lot of working together in order to accomplish really any task. And so I think one illustrative example is we wanted to put on a philanthropy event that, uh, I was spearheading in my position. I was doing brotherhood development activities, a philanthropy event. And so, uh, we hadn't really had much precedent. We hadn't had an event in a couple years. Um, and so I had come up with the summer with an event based off some stuff from other friends at other schools who I talked to. And so I had the idea for the event and I had to work with these other four members to kind of lead the rest of our brotherhood in putting on the event, organizing it. And there was a lot of challenges because it wasn't. There was no precedent. We hadn't done, um, things like this in the past. So we had to work to like a motivate people within ourselves to go out and get people to register and then participate and things like that. And there's also of course, the challenge of then finding others, um, give us $5 to participate in our event, why it's of any value, why it matters. And so that duality was really a challenge, um, as well as of course working amongst ourselves. Um, and so we met those by really laying out very concrete goals, um, and like doing a lot of brainstorming among the five of us breaking up to focus on different elements of the problems we thought we would face. Um, and the event ended up being really tremendously successful in that we had a lot of people participate. We met those goals of participation and money raised, and then we're able to have the event again this year and really set a precedent that hadn't existed before. So it was very successful.Sorry? If I had.Um, so I think currently, um, my greatest weakness and one which I'm working on is um, my ability. I uh, talked a lot just now about leadership positions and so they definitely impact me a lot. And right now my ability to uh, successfully delegate, um, and the word, I'm not necessarily looking for the word micromanage as much as truly delegate responsibility, work with another person and like let them um, be very responsible and communicate with them. I think, I think I struggle there. And that's definitely a weakness in my leadership as well as just my general activities because I struggle to um, let that person kind of go and foster their own ideas and get their own job done. I'm very quick, quick to step in and assist and maybe step on their toes even or at least provide feedback. Sometimes it is warranted and sometimes I think it isn't. And so to be more cognizant of that and to be better adept at dealing with that I think would uh, be very helpful. And so I'd love to see that change. It is something I'm working towards and I'm uh, working with people whose leadership I admire, um, who I think do a better job than that of me and trying to model myself after them. Um, but currently I do think is a weakness that I'd like to improve.Yes.So for this particular job, I think my greatest assets are the combination of skills and experiences that I bring to the table.And I think they make me very valuable for the position. So I have a very strong technical background. I'm in my third year at mit. I'm studying chemical biological engineering, which requires a wide array of very challenging coursework. Um, and I've done research in the field as well. And so all of those skills combined give me a strong technical set of both, uh, problem solving and engineering based skills. But then I also have done a lot of work outside of the classroom, both in projects that are academic related and totally not community service related and things of that nature to really develop communication skills, organization skills, um, and the uh, ability to really take a project and get it done. And so I think for this position I will have the technical background to fully understand and wrap my mind around and make goals that I want to accomplish to solve a problem. And then these other skills will ensure that not only can I identify a problem, but if I identify a problem, I will get it done. Um, and I know how to facilitate whatever resources are available to me to ensure that the job gets done and gets done well. So I think that would make me a very strong candidate.
P67: Good. Okay.Okay, good. So why is her name Kolakim?So it's not your username?Okay, so please tell me a bit about your background.Yeah. So do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.So, yeah, sounds like a very comfortable situation. So do you consider yourself a team player? Can you tell me, at a time when you worked on a team, you faced a challenge. How do you go about solving it?All right.Thanks for sharing that.So if you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Interesting.Thank you for sharing. Now, finally think of a job that you'd like to have. Anyone in mind?Good. Okay. So now, why do you think you should have this job?Well, thanks. I appreciate your coming here today for this interview. I learned a lot about you today.I think you've got a lot of confidence, a lot of charisma, and, uh, it all came off very nicely in the interview. You get a good rate, good production. Um, so I guess kind of my one suggestion is tying to questions three and four, actually. So the problem with giving the Gordon Leadership Program as example and this sort of thing is it's an exercise.It's kind of a trivial team experience compared to what other candidates will say. And I was telling you this so you don't do this in real interviews. And by making such a big deal out of it, it almost reduces modesty. If you think about it for number four, just because you're making that point. So I'd suggest you try to pick a non trivial experience. You know, where you worked, uh, either an athletic team crew had a common objective, um, or you, uh, solved a problem in an internship or something of that nature. Or the nightmare that was the dining plan. Tell the story about that because that's institutional change.And that's something that you can boast about and have something really to boast about. Whereas if you really puff up this kind of like, uh, an activity and it's like. Yeah, I remember. Will that make sense, sir?You did. It was an exercise.Anyway, just to suggest your overall delivery, this stuff is good, but if you have more significant content, then it won't seem as modest at times. Uh, you have a presence, which is good, but as long as you pair the presence with something to deliver, it should be good.Anyway, just trying to help.Do you have any questions for me or, um.Good number.This is the last night.So. Yeah. Good. I'm gonna take these things off and turn them off.They were appropriate.I didn't see any issues with them. Um, yeah, I mean, I think. I think your presence is good.You did a great. Excellent. Well, thanks for coming. Cameron.You too.Yes.
P69: Uh, so I'm, uh. I guess I was born in D.C. i lived in Maryland till I was seven. My parents decided it'd be a good idea for me to go to Nigeria, which is where we're from. And I lived the next seven years of my life there. And I came back to America for junior engineer year of, uh, high school. Until I did that. Um, well, like during that period, I sort of found interest in mechanical engineering. And so I decided to apply to MIT as the best engineering school. And, uh, I got accepted and I'm here now. Junior year.I acted as a leader. Um, well, one of the classes I'm taking this semester, it's 212 Introduction to Robotics. And the lab portion of the class is a group project. And so there are four people. And there has to be a team leader sort of to get everyone organized, everyone on the same page, um, let everyone know what's going on. And I, uh, sort of volunteered myself as a leader. And it's been. It's actually been much harder than I thought, just working with different people who want to do different things for this project. And so just organizing everyone and sort of focusing everyone has been an interesting challenge.Uh, I guess for my. Another class I'm taking this semester, actually, Design and Manufacturing. Um, there's a group of eight people, and we're tasked with sort of designing and manufacturing 100 yoyos. Um, yeah. And so I guess the, uh, prerequisite to this class was, uh, designing Manufacturing one where we had to make one robot. Uh, and sort of that was more individual. But here we're tasked with. The big thing here is manufacturing. And so it's easy for everyone to want to decide to design this yoyo, but you have to sort of consider the manufacturing aspect. Like, how easy would it be to make since you're making a ton of them. And so this was a challenge, sort of getting everyone to agree on one sort of design, uh, idea. And I started, I brought up, I made it. I should have let everyone know that it wasn't just the design that we're worrying about. It's also, and more so the manufacturing in this case.Um, so I'm not, I'd say I like public speaking, but I'm not very good at it. And so I say that's one of my biggest weaknesses. Um, and sort of working on it hasn't been hard just because it's something I like doing. And so like given opportunities, I try to be the leader of a certain group. That way I'm talking to the whole group a lot. Uh, that sort of helps my speaking. And just like in class projects, particularly humanities, I try to focus on taking ones where there's public speaking involved and not just writing essays and things like that.Yeah, sure.Junior here at MIT and this is the place to find of the best engineers or some of the best engineers in the world as student sort of interns. And I think I do a great job interning at this company. Uh, sort of because of the experience I have previously and the knowledge, combining that with the knowledge that I'm getting here at a world class institute, I think that make me well qualified.So I was born in D.C. moved to Nigeria when I was seven. Um, came back to America for my junior and senior year of high school and m applied to mit. I always wanted to be a mechanical engineer. So it was sort of a straightforward choice for me. It was always my first choice school. And I was excited to come here to start learning things. In the past it's just been sort of harrying about things but not really doing anything or learning about it. So that was exciting. So I'm studying mechanical engineering here now. And um, I'm concentrating in computer science and electrical engineering, which has been a newfound interest. I guess I'm a junior now, so. Yeah.I, uh, do think I'm a leader in some, um, regards. I mean, it's important to. Not always. And sometimes you don't want to be a leader. It's important to know how to follow as well. But I think, uh, I am like in most situations, a leader. For example, I was uh, sort of elected the leader for my 212 intro, um, robotics group, where we build a robot. Amongst the four of us, four to five. My group happened to be four. We built a robot. And so I sort of led the uh, group organizing meetings, delegating tasks, making sure that everyone was doing what they were meant to and just getting everyone on the same page. So just instances like that, uh, I think have shaped me to being a leader.So yeah, like I said, I guess it's also important to know how to let someone else take the lead. And so my other project class, uh, this semester I'm taking 288 design manufacturing too. And it's a group of eight people. So there's even more sort of heads to balance and so just sort of working with everyone, making sure that everyone sort of has a say in what's going on. There's a particular instance where I said the beginning of the project, we're meant to design a yoyo. And we couldn't really decide on a design because everyone wanted to do their own sort of thing. And uh, my role in that particular situation was sort of getting everyone to recognize the manufacturing aspect, not only the design aspect. So we ended up choosing something that was easy to manufacture as well as had a good design.Uh, I said, like, to. I wish I had a better sort of background in terms of academics. I didn't go to, like, the best high school. I didn't, uh, have the best teachers or things like that. Ah. And coming to a place like this and sort of seeing a lot of people who are, I mean, obviously naturally talented, but who also have had good. They've had opportunities to, you know, show their talent and get better and smarter, um, I wish I could have had that opportunity. I think I'd be, you know, even more. I could do more things than I am doing today.Because, uh, she hired me for a few reasons. One is because my leadership, uh, abilities, which I've talked a little bit about earlier, but also just my willingness to learn, um, I think more than the average person. I'm excited to learn new things, um, and sort of put those things into practice. And just as an example, I didn't know anything about computer science before coming to mit, but just, uh, taking just the introductory class, learning about that, uh, I got really interested in that. So I say that even when I don't know a lot of things or where my experience isn't the best, I'm, um, always willing to learn a lot. And lastly, I'm a really hard worker. And so I'm able to put in the hours and the time and energy that it takes to sort of get a task done. I think I'd make a good intern.
P70: Good. Tell me about yourself.Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership.Tell me about the time you were working on a team and faced a challenge. How did you solve that problem?Can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it?Why do you think you should get into graduate school?
P71: I'm good.Um, I'm an MIT undergraduate junior studying mechanical engineering. And I'm doing the flexible course which allows me to concentrate, um, in an area other than mechanical engineering. So I chose building technology and I'm hoping to get a double minor in energy and architecture as.I'm sorry?Um, I've taken on several leadership roles in my sorority. M. One of the most recent roles was a, ah, CPW chair. So, um, our university holds, uh, a weekend, um, to invite prospective students who have been accepted but have not, uh, um, decided to come to mit. And it's an important time to show them how great MIT is, but also to give them a taste of different activities on campus. So I organized a dinner at our house with a co chair. And then this year I'm planning all of our outer social events. So they're basically three large formal events.So in high school, I was really involved on the robotics team. Um, I had three other teammates and it was very difficult to narrow down ideas. Everyone had, like, different views, different opinions about how we should do things. Um, and I think that communication was the most important thing. Making sure that we were putting our ideas on the table, but also listening to each other. I thought that was one of the most important factors in our success. We ended up doing pretty well as a group in this way.One of my weaknesses is kind of going out of my comfort zone, um, as far as what I'm studying. So I think that, uh, in high school, because I was so involved in robotics, I didn't really look outside of mechanical engineering. And then my parents are also architects, which is where that came from. So there are two things that I'm really passionate about, but I feel that especially being at mit, there are so many other areas I am kind of neglecting, particularly the arts and stuff. And, um, I feel it's important to have a balance, and I'm not really achieving that right now.Um, I believe that I have a very strong educational background in the field. Um, I'm really passionate about the subject. Um, it's something that I've been exposed to in the past because my parents are architects. Um, but at the same time, it's something that I think is very important for the future in terms of energy consumption. Um, I knew I wanted to go into some sort of energy field at mit, and I think I finally found one that I really enjoy, and it's good.You should turn it on first. Remind me what industry you're interested in again.Oh yeah, that's right. I know, they're fine.Number 71, Trinity.How are you doing today?Good. Tell me more about your background.All right. Do you think you're a leader?And do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example of a time when there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?Good. If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?And why do you think you should get to.Great. How do you think you did?I thought you were really well spoken.Um, so, yeah, you seemed, you seemed a little rigid.But, um, in general, in terms of what I actually got out of you, you were really eloquent in terms of your background. So you were mechanical engineering plus concentration, building technology. You had, ah, several internships and I liked how you ended it with. And that's the direction I want to continue in. So that was a full answer. And I thought in terms of the leadership, I liked how you sort of described what you feel like your leadership style is. I think it would be stronger if you had an example.So just a short example of either an event or a project. Just small example.That's exactly what I was looking for. Conflicting ideas, communication, success. In terms of what you want to change about yourself, that's essentially the weakest question. So you know, perfectionist. It's not time or energy efficient. And you say I should work on that. So you want to say I am working on that. Uh, this is what I'm doing. Okay. And then, um, why are you qualified or why do you think you should get the job? You're qualified academically, you have internship experience, you're really interested in it and you feel like you'll get a lot out of it. You want to focus more on what they'll get out of it rather than what you'll get out of it. So I think. I feel like I'll contribute a lot to the company. I feel like I'm a good fit, and I feel like I can add value. Those things.But you'll remember this time?Yep.An on, off switch. I feel like that would make a lot of sense.One more survey for you. Thank you so much for coming in.You can put the door open. Thanks.
P72: Good.Tell me about yourself.Great. Tell me about the time you demonstrated leadership.Tell me about a time you were working on a team. And face to check, how did you solve that problem? Let's see.Can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it?Great.Linguistics research.Yeah. They don't get any easier. Don't get off.Good. How are you? Good.Um, okay, so I'm a third year linguistics student. Um, I'm, um, uh, working on some linguistics research. Research right now. And I'm interested in going into linguistics research after undergrad.Um, yeah, I think I'm a leader. I think I've fulfilled leadership positions in the past and I think I've excelled in that role. Um, I've led different group projects in my classes and I've also been, um, a resident associate advisor in my dorm M and I've led activities there where we had to organize events for freshmen once a month, uh, to get them interested in different aspects of the curriculum and also, um, just general helping them out for things. Okay.Okay. So, yeah, ah, I think I worked well as a team member. Um, for a big group project we had in one of my linguistics classes. Um, we had to look at aspects of a language. And so we were broken into groups of four. Um, and we were each split to look at a different aspect of the language. So two people looked at the phonology or the sounds of the system, and my partner and I looked at the grammar of the language. And so one of the two people assigned to the phonology group wasn't really following through with his part of the work. Um, I guess he was busy with other classes, but his partner was really stressed out about it. So she came and talked to my partner and I and asked what she should do about it because he wasn't helping out. And so the three of us sort of talked about it. And then we emailed him, asked if he could come meet with all of us. The four of us were able to talk about it and work out an agreement where he did some of the. Some extra work in putting the two parts together, the phonology and the syntax, to make up for the fact that he hadn't done this much for the original research. So that ended up working out well.Um, I think it would probably be my shyness because that tends to hold me back. Um, but I think I've Been working to change that. Um, I've been trying to practice things, um, like presentations that make me nervous or that I have problems with because I'm shy. I've also been trying to get out, meet more people. I've been doing more extracurriculars. And, um, I volunteered to teach a class to middle schoolers and high schoolers. So that sort of helped in a low stress environment. Practicing, presenting.Um, I think I would be a really good addition to a linguistics research team because I'm really, really passionate about linguistics, and it's something I really enjoy spending lots of time working on. Um, and I enjoy working on a team and I work well with other people and I've had research positions in the past, and I think I would, um, be a good addition to a team.I think I did well.Okay.Oh.I completely forgot.Yeah.Oh, okay. Yeah. Yes.Okay. Cool.Good.Great.Okay, cool. Thanks for coming in. Yeah, no problem. Thanks.
P73: So computer science and math and I play cello in the orchestra and I'm a part of Sigma Kappa.So I'm in high school. I was the president of uh, our youth board for United Way, which is a non, um, profit that raises money and awareness for social and economic problems and then we build and try to change them. And so my senior year as part of the youth board, we ended up fundraising and starting a new fundraiser. And it was a hockey game between our hockey team and the private school's hockey team, which wasn't really a fair game, but that's okay. Um, and it was very down to the wire, which we weren't aware of. I mean, planning an event around winter break is never really easy schedule wise and stuff, but it was definitely a challenge for us. But it ended up being successful and we raised over $4,000 for us. Yeah, the organization is definitely one of my favorite. Uh, it lets students have a way to get back to their community, which was a big deal for us since actually that year we lost three kids to suicides via train in a few months. And so it was really nice for us to have a way to actually give back to our community instead of just thinking about it and wishing we could do something. So it worked out really nicely for us to really make a difference.How did you solve that problem? I mean, in school we get a lot of projects that are group projects. And I've noticed that I tend to be a person who, when the slack doesn't, you know, slack starts to happen, I just kind of do it. And after a while it gets very taxing to pick up for everyone. And so I remember m senior year we just had this project, um, in math and it was just so frustrating to do it by myself. And so I just kind of sat everyone down and I was like, I can't do this on my own anymore and I really need your help. And it was really nice because they were my friends and they didn't realize they were doing it. And so we made up a new plan and re divvied the work.Yeah, I'm kind of a perfectionist and I like everything to work out well, which means that when I'm starting something new, sometimes I can't look over the little details that I don't see that will work. And I don't get how you can just look past that to see a bigger picture and come up with a big idea and then work on the small details later, kind of more detail oriented and then work for the bigger goal. So that's definitely been one of my problems and I've been working on getting over that, but just thinking about it in the future and just, you know, you can get there and you look at the bigger goal and then if you divvy it up into smaller tasks, uh, it's a lot easier to overcome and deal with everything. So good.I think you should hire me because I've had a lot of experience dealing with other people and communicating and making sure that, uh, coming up, like to come up with the best solution that everyone can hopefully agree with. And, you know, of course not everyone can get their way, but it's important to try to get everyone's ideas into one.You can still do consulting.You're number 73.No.M.How are you?I'm a freshman at MIT here, so I'm studying courses six and 18, which is computer science and math. M In high school, I did a lot of community work service. I was the president of our United Way board, which is a non for profit. I did a lot of our school math Teens Classic Bowl. I was captain of a lot of those. And then on campus here, I'm part of my sorority, Sigma Kappa in Tech Fair, which is involved in bringing a lot of companies and student groups here to showcase their things.I think so. I think, um, I have a little different view of what a leader is. I think there's definitely one aspect that's very obvious that, you know, you bring everyone to do what you think is best. But I think the most important part of being a leader is incorporating everyone else's ideas. I think a lot of times some people who are really strong are like natural leaders, but they don't always take the time to make sure everyone else likes what they're doing. And they're very straightforward and they go for it. But I think what makes a really important leader is being able to incorporate everyone else's ideas and find that middle ground that everyone wants to do.Definitely. Um, I know in high school, as a senior last year, they gave us a lot of group projects to kind of bring us out of the stereotypical classroom and get ready for a new environment in college. And I remember one of our projects, it was in a group and we were doing something for our econ class and it was. We had to like model a situation and do the graphs. And econ's like, very straightforward graph wise. There isn't that much to deal with, but my group had like different ideas of how they thought the lines would shift. And I remember everyone was just kind.We ended up with like four different scenarios and no one knew what they wanted to do. And we just had to take the time And I remember I looked at all the graphs, and there were some things that were similar. Just everyone had a different way going about it. So I kind of tried to combine m all the ideas, and we ended up coming up with a graph that was almost a combination of everyone. So worked out in the end here.I think what I change about myself is that, uh, I've always grown up a very private person at home. It was just. I always felt like my problems and my issues weren't as important as what other people were dealing with. So I tend to deal with them myself, which, as you grow older and the problems aren't just so silly like a little middle school problem, they become a lot more weighty when you have so many of them. Um, and so because of that, it's. Sometimes I get bogged down in myself, and I never let it affect my work because I don't want anyone else to be burdened by it. But after a while, it gets very overwhelming, so I wish I'd just be more willing to share that with people.I think I should get this job because I think there's so many opportunities at this company that I really like to be a part of. There's just a lot of chance for growth and a lot of chance also to do something that you love and make a difference because of it. I think that the way I deal with problems and working together, but also trying to find the best solution and bring people to that level is something that could really benefit the company as well.I finished and was like, I didn't really answer the question.Thank you.Thank you.
P74: Um, okay. I am a computer science major. Um, I'm a senior at MIT and um, I'm hoping to stay in the area next year. I'm looking for a job here and I grew up in South Dakota and a little bit in Cambodia. Grew up on a farm. I really enjoy playing music and cooking. Probably my two biggest hobbies.Well, when I was in high school, I was a leader of my 4H club and that involved leading meetings. Um, there were a lot of younger kids who were involved and I helped them get involved in sewing competitions, for example, and um, things where they could learn about nutrition, um, and showing their animals and learning about how to raise an animal. So that was a big leadership role and it was kind of difficult, but I definitely learned a lot from it.How did you solve that problem? Well, um, um, I play music with some of my friends in some social settings. Um, we've played for a couple of weddings and it's sometimes difficult to coordinate what we would like to play and how we'd like to practice and the styles of music that we'd like to play. Um, and to do that properly, you just need to communicate a lot and you need to be willing to sometimes do the things that you really don't want to do.One of my weaknesses is probably procrastination. Same as a ton of people, I'm sure. Mhm. Um, to overcome that, I am trying to structure my time and plan out a schedule so that I will do one thing for an hour and one thing for the next hour. So if I procrastinate for the whole hour, then I feel bad. So the idea is to avoid that. Okay.I think that I am a strong, strong learner, definitely. And whatever new skills, since in web development there's always new technologies coming along, um, I am quick at learning those and I really enjoy learning new things. And I have a good base with my computer science degree from mit, so I know in general how to think about programming.Okay. And you are 74?So turn on first. So you have to hold them both on until a little blue light turns on. Hi. How are you doing today? Hi.Good. Tell me more about your background.Great. And you think you're a leader? Tell me why.So do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had resolved it?If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Okay. And why do you think you should get the job?Great. How do you think you did?Um, so that's good.You can work on your eye contact a little bit more in terms of the answers. So your first answer I like. You know, I'm a senior computer science, like with flute, South Dakota. Which is lovely. Um, you didn't really give me an idea of where you want to go in the future. So you always wanted. You always want to end on, and I hope to work for your company.So you should pay attention to that for your leader question. I thought that was excellent. I'm glad you gave an example, even though I didn't ask for it. So that was good for your group project. Um, so my understanding was we had a group project we had trouble about because we have different backgrounds, so we changed the project to better suit everyone's backgrounds. Yeah. Okay, so that last part was an assumption because I don't think you explicitly stated what the solution was. So you said we changed the project and then something, something, something. Different backgrounds.So just make sure that's clear. Um, but otherwise, that's really nice in terms of changing one thing about yourself. This is essentially the weakness question. So make sure you. You want to. So this is my weakness, and this is what I'm doing to fix it, make it better. And you sort of just left it. So you want to say so I wish I were more comfortable meeting new people. I can join more student groups and yada yada, yada to help. And I think I really, you know, reached out to a lot more people like that.Um, why should you get the job without the most spot on background experience? You enjoy it. And a lot of people use the word passionate, but basically, I'm really interested and I'm qualified.
P76: I'm doing well, thanks.Well, I'm Zainab Assisi. I'm a junior majoring in chemical engineering. I was originally born in Nigeria, which is in West Africa, but I grew up in England and Jamaica before coming to mit.The time I demonstrated leadership, I'd probably say at the moment in my position as the Vice president of the African Students association at mit. So as the vice president I have to be, I have to basically support the president and whenever the president of the association is not there, step in and actually be the leader for the association. So the African Students association is about an organization that comprises of about 80 Africans at MITs and it's just all undergraduates and it's just about just keeping the African community alive and just so that people know that they have a support system within MIT because most of them are like international students. So they're very far away from home. So it's like heaven. It's home away from home for them.I'd probably say my past internship with bp. Um, I was working on a team. I was a process engineer intern. And the challenge I had was that I was given a project that ah, they didn't really know what the project hadn't been done before. It's just something like they had ideas about what they wanted but they had no clear cut visions m or anything. They just knew the, I guess the skill set and the types of things that they want from my project. So for me just to go about delivering a tool that I've used to the entire team, which is about working with people, communicating, asking them questions about what exactly um, is it that they want me to do and then doing, then I did like a few modeling things and then I'll show them and then they'll give me feedback and then I'll do some more. So that was more about it because I don't think they had an idea about what they wanted at the first place. They just knew, okay, we want this model to do this and do that and do that. We're not too sure how it's going to do it, but you know, just come up with some things. It was all on me to use my creativity and just pick people's brains and come up, deliver something that's of use to the team.I think one of my weaknesses is that, um, I'd say I'm a very independent worker. So sometimes I treat like I don't. I work too much by myself. Whereas in. I do work well in teams, but I just need to be more force because when I'm just given a project, I'm like, okay, I can do this and then I'll try to sort it out. So I guess one of my weaknesses is like approaching other people, especially people that I'm not I don't really know and like asking them questions and things like that. So, yeah, something I need to. Need to develop my communication skills a little better.I think that I have a wonderful personality. I'm great to work with. I will do anything that is asked of me with a smile on my face. I'll always try m my best and I'll be a team player.Reservoir engineering.Okay.I'm doing well, thanks. And yourself?Well, I'm Zainab, ah, I'm a junior and chemical majoring in Chemical Engineering at, ah, mit. But I'm doing a minor in Energy Studies and a concentration in Anthropology.Tell me why I think that I am a leader. This is because I've held various leadership positions at college thus far. And I think with my leadership, the, uh, groups and the organizations that have been part of have been able to succeed. For instance, at the moment, I'm the vice president of the African Students association. So at MIT, the African Students association is about a group of 80 students, both international and domestic students. So we're more of a social group where we throw social events such as, like, cultural shows and study breaks and things like that, just to get the African students ignited and just united so that they can confront each other with whatever problems they have. M so I guess the most recent event that we had was cultural show where we displayed to the entire MIT community just about what it's like to be African. We did it through performances such as dancing, singing, spoken word and things like that. And also other schools from the Boston, Cambridge area, like Harvard, Boston University, Wellesley and so on. They also came in attendance and that was fun.I think the time when there was conflict in my team was when I was doing this project for one of my classes, which was in sophomore year. So it was like a group of four of us, and we all divided the topic evenly so that we could all focus on a specific parts of the project. However, there was one person that just wasn't pulling her weight. So I wasn't too sure whether it was just she's stressed or busy with other things. Like towards the end of the semester, she just didn't put the effort into doing what she was meant to do. So I did confront her about it, and she told me that she hadn't had time to, uh, do the necessary work. So I just said, just block out some time in your schedule and let's meet M up and let's do the work together. And we're able to produce, I guess, very good products at the end of the day.The option to change one thing? I think I'll be more outgoing in terms of speaking, being able to speak to others more freely and confidently. Because at the moment, I do speak with people I don't know and do work with people that aren't my friends or aren't in my social circle. But I wish I was more upgoing in the sense of I was more comfortable speaking with other people and interacting with other people and things like that.I think I should get the job because I have a very strong academic background. I have, uh, experiences and different companies thus far in my very short academic career. And I think I've been able to work with a variety of people, and I'd be an asset to any team I'm a part of.Probably better than last time.Yeah, I'm a leader.Thank you. What are these things for?
P77: Good. I'm doing well as well. Please tell me about yourself.Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership.Tell me about a time you were working on a team and faced a challenge. How did you solve that problem?Can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it?Great. And why should we hire you?Great.Did you have to wait long?And Your number is 77. Remind me what industry you're interested in again.How are you today?Tell me more about your background.Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.Do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example of a time there's a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?And why do you think you should get the job?How do you think you did?M. Yeah, I think. All right, so I was a little confused in the very beginning when you only mentioned that you were a mechanical engineer and that you were looking for a position.Yeah.Right, right. A little bit of that. Uh, where have you been? And the fact that you're an MIT student.I didn't even say that.Like, I guess I can't.Yeah. So that it could have been a stronger beginning. But, I mean, you recognize that, so I'm sure you'll be. Interview. Your leadership answer was excellent. You said, this is what I believe leadership is. It's not always formal. It's about taking initiative. And then you gave a lot of examples, so that's great. And then for a team player, that was also good about, uh, the project. This was a conflict. This was the situation. I tried to get rid of my bias. I listened. We ultimately changed direction, and we were very successful. So that's good. A lot of people don't understand this question as a weakness question, but you read it perfectly. So you gave your weakness and you gave what you're doing to work on it, and you made big improvements, and this is what you hope for the future. That's exactly what you're supposed to say.Why do you think you should get the job again? I think I remember you answering it very well last time, too. Yeah.So, uh, again, you did really well on that one.One more short time.
P78: Um, I'm a junior in computer science. What sort of things do you want to know about me? Anything I like programming and Python. I haven't been in computer science that long because I used to be a chemistry major, but I've been taking computer science classes for the past year and a half.I'm the president of my acapella group, so I have to organize publicity things. Like when we have a performance, I have to make sure that everyone knows about the performance so we have an audience and organize details like the reception and getting a room reserved.Team, I guess if I could count my a cappella group as a team, because I guess it is. There are times when we've had conflicts about whether we wanted to sing a specific song. For instance, oftentimes there would be a song that we really liked, but it would take up a lot of rehearsal time, so we didn't think it was worth learning it because we had limited time. So we do resolve the conflict by discussing different options. I think we finally ended up deciding to sing the song in a future semester. Larry would still be able to sing it, but it wouldn't compromise the rest of our repertoire.I can only think of things that were weaknesses. I guess I have trouble being criticized because I've always been sensitive. And when I get criticized by people who aren't as sensitive, I react, uh, more strongly to their criticism than they intend me to. M. So I have to learn to realize that some people who aren't as sensitive will criticize more harshly.Because I'm excited to work at Facebook.And because I'm motivated to do things in computer science because I find it really fun.That's right. Okay, so, Jessica, room number 78. So if you hold your buttons down. Perfect.Button on the bottom?Aren't you cold?Okay.All right. How are you doing today? I'm doing well.Good. Tell me more about your background.Do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.Oh, okay. Um, do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?Okay. If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?And why do you think you should get the job?Okay. How do you think you did?Time, and I still don't have an answer. It was a bit short. So, uh, what? One thing that I think would help you with your last question is actually answering your first question more thoroughly About. Tell me about yourself. So, you know, I'm a junior in computer science. But I used to be a chem major. Uh, so I worked at a chem lab. But then I decided to go into software. So you didn't really like shape that transition very well from um, chemistry into computer science.Maybe very briefly about. Maybe not so much what made you decide to go away from chemistry, but what focus more on what sparked your interest in computer science. Um, does that make sense?So you know what, you could say that. So you could say I was always really interested in computer science before coming to mit. I was, you know, wasn't as exposed to it as I could have been. And then like, as I spent more time here, I really realized I passion. Um, and I think that would make. Because it seems like to me it sounds like, oh, she was premed, now she's not anymore.Um, so you want to avoid that. Okay. And then leadership. Good. Your group work.So the what would you change about yourself is really the weakness question in disguise.Um, so self conscious, that's fine. Hesitate, you know, makes you hesitate too much. But you also want to talk about what you're doing to fix it.So even though it doesn't ask you that, you want to make sure you put it out there that it's not really a problem anymore. And then.Right. But you're working on it. Oh yeah. Um, and in the near future it won't be a problem anymore. Okay. So. And why do you think you want to get the job? So if you have a, you know, a better. This is why I'm passionate about computer science. I think it'll be more streaming so you can talk about your enthusiasm, your problem solving, also your computer science skills. So you have the enthusiasm, but you also want to list it, remind them of the technical skills that you possess.And then of course, I really love your company. So that's actually the correct way to end it. But it is a bit brief.Great. We have one more short survey for you outside. Thank you. And then you'll be all set. Okay, thank you. Thanks for coming in. Thank you.
P79: Good, good.Um, I'm from Mumbai, I'm a junior in class six. Um, when I applied to iit I wasn't quite sure what I wanted to do. M. I thought I'd do chemical engineering but um, got super interested in a bunch of stuff and um, finally decided course six. I've researched the Mija lab before. Um, now I'm working, working at Blitz which is over in Stella. So it's. And in general I've been involved with Engineers Without Borders here and a bunch of other um, clubs like Energy Club and organizing the energy conference with 100k and startup workshops. So in general I'm super interested in um, entrepreneurship and computer science. Like certain aspects. Computer science really interests me as well. So yeah, I'm just here to learn.Sure. So, well this is the most recent example I can think of. But um, as a freshman I was, I mean I still am pretty excited about international development. So I joined Mission as well Borders, um, as ah, there was, it was a project called Shaoji and it wasn't formally affiliated with EWB usa but we decided to take it on because we wanted. So we were building sort of low cost, easy to set up showers for use in Kenya. Um, and it was basically something that I'd never done before because it's computer science. People, you know, gender don't deal with the real world. So um, that was a great thing for me to get involved with. And um, that summer I went and traveled with them to Kenya. Um, and that was a great experience. So coming back um, I was elected as leading the next year's team. Um, that was a great thing because it's important to kind of realize that you might not have all the answers, that's fine, even you want to be etc. But it was like despite not knowing anything about mechanical engineering, I was able to sort of understand and learn. Um, sort of graduate to eventually becoming, taking on a leadership role in that community.Yeah, tons of times. Um, so, so we had this SaaS class called 21W789MHM which is basically um, you make a mobile app and you sort of pretend as if it's something that you're actually making for industry. And um, there were four people on our team, two heavily experienced programmers. There was me who was kind of like I know how to do it, but I could do with more instruction. There was someone who was just starting out, she was a freshman that year. Um, but she was great. And, uh, we decided to make this app where, um, when you have two iPhones, you can swipe, like you can bump them and whatever's on one phone, it'll sort of appear on the other. You can mirror web pages, you can split them. And it was something that, you know, we hadn't done before. Not a ton of people had done it. And, um, at the Media Lab there was this thing, technology that was recently sort of discovered, invented, um, called Swipe. They just swiped from one to the other and we thought that would be really great. It was someone like a student like us who had done that. Um, but we didn't realize that it was not production ready. And then, and we'd have all these bugs and stuff and we'd have no documentation to go to. But there was this one person on the team being the awesome programmer. He has insisted on going that way. When we met the founder of Swipe, he was like, you know what, just don't use it. It's not optimized for the stuff that you guys are sending across the data. And um, so we had this sort of tiff when the rest of the team wanted to move on to do the same project using the Bump API, which is kind of standard.Whereas it would be infinitely cool to do Swipe, but we just didn't have the resources at the time. So, um, you know, he was really experienced. You can't even say, you know, you don't know what you're doing. Because he did know what he was doing. So eventually we were ah, able to convince him that we should probably go with whatever we wanted as a team instead of make it all democratic, etc. Um, so there was definitely a challenging situation because he's great, he's smart and he's super nice and you don't want to offend anyone on the team, especially when they are friends. You have to get the work done.Okay.Um, is this a technical weakness or a general weakness? Okay. Um, a lot of times, uh, this is something that coding has taught me that I haven't quite learned, is that whenever you're in Dao, just go ahead and do stuff. But for me, I like to think about the entire algorithm or how exactly I'm going to use what before I start coding. M which is a problem because sometimes new solutions come along the way that you haven't thought of. You can iterate fast. Um, and it's okay if stuff doesn't work the first time. Whereas I kind of want to research everything before I start doing stuff. Um, that's sometimes an issue because then I can't do it as fast, especially if there's something new. But, um, on the other hand, sometimes if it works like, it works really well because I've done my homework. But in general, I'd like to set a fan, just get my hands and then do stuff. Yeah.Well, because a year ago I didn't know how to code at all. And now, like next semester I'm gonna finish up my degree as a junior. Then I'll probably do math or something else. But that just kind of shows you that, uh, I'm willing to learn and I'm not afraid of trying new stuff. This technology will always change. And sure, if I don't do PHP today, you might not even use it tomorrow. But, um, I think what's really important is that I'm willing to learn. M. Um. And I work well within the team and I also like working by myself. So there's a good balance of what, um, stuff is. And yeah, just like hanging out with great people and doing great work. Great.Oh, yeah, sure. Okay.No, no, this is also. I was doing a, um, food experiment of sorts. I don't think I want to know. No, I mean, it was just with coloring, so. Oh, okay. Trying to make my own m. Body scrub. Oh, that sounds neat. M. Yeah, I just saw this online somewhere. Just trying to do that.Software. Software. Good. Okay.Good. Good.Related to software or just in general? Tell me about yourself. Okay. So my name is Jessica Harya. I come from Mumbai Inu. And, um, I came to mit, um, thinking I'd do computer science, um, thinking I'd do chemical engineering. And then I did a urop at the media lab, which I found amazing. It's like, maybe this is what I want to do. So I shifted over to computer science, um, and I'm a junior right now. Um, it's been going great. I'm generally interested in, um, energy education, recently robotics, and, um, what I hope to do. I'm not particularly clear about what exactly I want to do after graduation, but eventually something entrepreneurial and definitely, um, getting a lot of industry experience before that. Um, depending on how, you know, my MH goes. I might or might not want to stay in academics later on. But, um, I've always been super excited about doing projects that actually make a difference to people and everything. So that's kind of what I want to do. Like, how I will do it has not yet been formulated. Okay.Um, I do. Um, well, although there's no set definition of leadership, but, um, I do believe I've had the good fortune of being, um, a leader in numerous student clubs, high school, and even at mit. Um, even in the presence of graduate students, um, you know, managed sort of like, obviously they know more academically, but I still managed to, like, hold my ground, um, because I think I'm involved with a lot of stuff that goes on on campus. I understand stuff with, um. And that's what sort of made me realize that m. I do like people. I like working with people, and I like driving the vision of a team. And I do believe I'm creative enough, uh, to be able to engage the people I lead and at the same time, technical enough to understand what it is that we want to achieve and convince that we want and have this mutual consensus that this is how we should do it.Um, so, yeah, definitely. I feel like I like working with teams. Like I said, I like people. And I will give, um, m an example related to a class that I took was called. I don't remember the exact name, but it was something related to mobile development. And we had to make an app as part of the class. And one of our ideas was that if you have two iPhones, um, what you do is you bump the two together and whatever is on one screen will appear on the other. It was, um, quite a novel idea in terms of everyone else was either doing photo sharing or meeting friends, etc. Ours required more technical expertise than a lot of the other ideas out there. Um, and there was this new thing that was developed at MIT's Media Lab, um, called Swipe, which basically allowed you to swipe from one phone to the other and transfer information. Well, that was optimized for the objects we wanted to send data across. So it wasn't really what we wanted. But we thought that was a good start. And a couple of members on our team knew the people who started that, so we set up talks with them. We started implementing that and one, um, member of our team was particularly gungko about it. Um, before Fuzz, there was this guy who was great and who was super excited to be trying new stuff. Um, another very expensive. There was me who was relatively alright. Um, and there was someone else who was a freshman at the time and she was basically okay with every idea, she was very, etc. Um, and he really wanted to use it. And after a few tries we realized it wasn't really working. Um, we went back to the people who made Swipe and they said maybe it's not ready for production yet and you should stop using it. While the other member on our team still wanted to use it. Um, we understood that, but then we had to still complete the project. So, um, we had to deal with understanding where he comes from and then realizing we need to do something about it. And we had a meeting, um, resolved it, uh, amicably. We told him, hey, look, this is why we think Swipe is cool, but this is also why we think we need to not use it. Because there's also other APIs that are more established we could use. Probably not as, um, dramatic as Swipe, but it will do what we need to and um, over a series of such meetings, um, he came to realize by himself and through our strategic things like, hey, can you implement something like this real quick for me? And he would realize, oh, maybe I can, maybe I should do something else. So we sort of use um, a mixture of tactics to get him to agree to not use swipe but use bump, which was widely available. Mhm.So what I would have actually changed, although this was in the past, um, is a deeper understanding of math. And that's really strange you'll ask. Um, but uh, what I really feel is that like, you know, there's intuition and I'm pretty intuitive in general, as you know, if I don't understand the concept, I will still somehow know what to do in that situation. Um, but in a lot of situations I realized this is especially related to academic, um, that you know, having a superior understanding of math is so key. Um, I do believe I have a, you know, very good understanding. But I just wish I'd done more of that uh, when I was, you know, littler. And I wish I just like known um, what I wanted to do earlier in life so I could have actually started working on it. But that being said, that's not something that, I mean that's already something I'm working towards changing. So I've already gotten a lot better at understanding the theory behind the intuition that all of us already have. Um, and definitely by the time I graduate, ready for industry, that will have changed. But I feel like people who've been doing it since they were five and me just coming totally new into something like that definitely makes a difference right now. But last year I didn't know how to. This year I'm one semester as in three classes away from completing my um, computer science degree. So I definitely feel like I could do that, but I just wish I'd done it a lot earlier.Um, well, it's because, uh, first and foremost I'm super excited about um, working in the Synchronous and definitely m working with great people. Um, I think that there's a lot to be learned from that and those two factors really is basically why I want it. And as to why I should get it, I think is um, because I believe I can learn really quickly and I believe I'm um, a team player and try to move things forward. This is an entrepreneurship, like one of my professors said, either you're building the product or selling it or getting in the way. So I definitely feel like, um, I could be building the product really well and contribute to the general positivity of the organization.Okay, so for the third question, I was like, uh, am I supposed to give a set of example or another one? So I was not sure what to do, which is I had that whole thing, like, getting into it. Yeah. So I was kind of taken aback because I wasn't expecting the same question. And, um, in that moment, the one thing I knew I could answer it, given the fact that I was supposed to not have met you before, I just said the same thing.To do, so that's fine.Yeah. Because like, the first, I just didn't know what I was supposed to say at that point of time. No, it was fine.The beginning, the answer was that was me sort of like catching up. What do I do? What I do? Yeah.So that's good.Reason of the interview.Yeah, I realized that immediately after I do it and I was like, oh.Yeah.Yeah.Yeah.Okay. Yeah.Great. Um, during an interview, are you supposed to like assume that people have sort of read what you've done? Um.So.Okay, I see. Yeah. Because, um, with course six, which is the computer science course, um, we don't end up doing a lot of behavioral interviews. Like not until they're all day in. So like at the end. Right, Right. Before you get selected or not, you have somewhat of a technical interview, but they don't bother getting to know you kind of before you have the skills.So they do it like the other way around. Right, right.Yeah. Sometimes like people who are really brilliant, like, end up like. Cuz like they just have like a different way of thinking from like the rest of the world that it just doesn't end up jelly with the team.Thank you so much for coming. Thank you so much.
P80: Awesome. How about yourself? Good.Well, I grew up in Berkeley, California and I've been interested in medicine my whole life. Um, my dad worked for UCSF M as a researcher, but not as a doctor. And I would visit him at work. And I was always attracted to the hospital side as much. The loud side do like research as well.Well, in high school I was captain of a golf team and that was a blast. Golf, girls, golf is not super competitive, to say the least. It's very haphazard and it's usually been one extreme or another, very bimodal. Um, you mean you've got these like super serious girls who like parents are on the course with them and they're gonna be lpga or you just have girls who are like, not that athletic, just like goofing off with golf clubs and doing whatever. And Berkeley High is definitely the latter of that. Okay. So I, uh, you know, coordinated this group of Motley girls along with my coach. And we had a lot of competitions where candy was the reward and played a lot of games, had a really great time. But a big part of it was like, you know, there was like a leadership aspect. We had to like stay organized, especially because no one else was. And so like, making sure we made it to meets and like organizing, um, the snacks, making sure people showed up.Well, I mean, I can continue the same example because I didn't start off as captain. And it's different, you know, when you're the head versus like part of group. Um, it's more important when you're part of a group to be a cohesive part and not like the leader. To be able to like, understand directions and like, I mean, if there's an issue, like, work it out. But to be able to take, you know, instructions and think about it and work with other people to encourage them to do the same.So, uh, this is one time we encountered an issue. So we were going to a meet and you have to travel a lot for golf because golf courses are big and not very common in comparison to something like a soccer field. So we were going out into the inlands of California and our car broke down.And it was early in the morning. No one had no sleep. Girls, teenage girls, no caffeine, not enough sugar, not enough breakfast. We were in a really old car and my coach was like 30 minutes ahead and we were going to be late. We blew a tire actually. So we called aaa but it was stressful. But we ended up playing games and like I led a uh, yoga session on the highway which was, you know, hilarious. And we're there in these ridiculous outfits. We're wearing like we as Berkeley High, we like wore stupid outfits on purpose. We had like knee high argyles and like polos. It was so funny. Can only imagine how he looked.Uh, yeah. So I'm not super great with being organized. Like I'm alright, but especially with like administrative things like paperwork. And I'm good with deadlines but only if I like set reminders. So like even for example, trying to get into this building today was an adventure. Or remembering to fill out all the forms for like my Europe and everything is, could be sometimes sort of a struggle.Well, I love helping people and I'm going to be a great doctor. I have good dexterity. I like to study. I find medicine fascinating. Fascinating. I feel like I could really make the most impact that way. I would utilize my skills in the best way possible. Queenie.That's good. Wait, so you probably want to turn them on first. Perfect. So you have plenty of caffeine in your system.Yeah, I can imagine. You're number 80. Yeah. They stay tricky. There we go. Good.Um, how are you doing today?Good. Tell me more about your background.And do you think you're a leader? Tell me why.So do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team and you had to resolve it?If you were given the option to change one thing about yourself, what would that be?And, uh. Why do you think you should get into medical school?Well, great. How do you think you did better than last time? You did so much better than last time. This was excellent. I don't know if I have any feedback for. You were very good, very professional.So let's see you. So this is where you were from. From now you're at mit, you study at a lab where you get to combine these experiences, which influences your interest in science and medicine. That's excellent. Why are you a leader? You gave me really good example, and you explained what med lease was. That was really good. Um, I was worried you weren't going to tell m me exactly what leadership was, but then you said you went into. I teach. I organized, I listened to feedback. That was excellent. Um, for your teamwork example, it was very good. Still high school, I was like, do.But you can always do a group project. I'm sure you've done a group project. Really?Project, that would be a good team example. I'm not saying you're definitely going to have a conflict, but I'm sure you know something.That's interesting. This might be really unique. So for your weakness, I think that's an excellent weakness. And you talked about how you pretty much resolved. Now, I would avoid using the word stress. Okay, I would still avoid that. But otherwise, I mean, you can avoid that word. The answer itself is fine. And then why should you get to medical school? You talked about, you know, your interests, you talked about your qualifications, and then you talked about. I really liked how you ended it on, like, you know, now I'm doing this lab work, I get to be really excited, but I really want to be on the people side. That was excellent.Yeah, Great work.Good deal.So if you please turn it off. And I think there's one more short survey for you to fill out. Yeah, it just takes a minute.Thank you so much.Oh, yeah, of course.
P81: So tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership.Were working on a team and faced a challenge. How did you solve that problem?So tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it.Great. And why do you think you should get to law school?Okay.I am a sophomore at mit. Um, I'm studying brain and cognitive science with a minor in biology. Right now I'm working in a lab that is more of a neurocognition lab. Um, we work basically to try to figure out pathways in the brain that ah, are associated with specific functions. It's a longitudinal study, so it's something I'm really interested in. But I think for moving forward, I'm um, going to try to start working with more of the neuropharmacology aspect because it's such an emerging field. That's I think mainly where I want to go because I hope to eventually work in patent law and so pharmacology would be very important for that field.Tell me why? I think I am a leader in the sense that I see people as people and I see tasks as tasks and I know how to communicate effectively between how to get these tasks done and how to get the people to do them. And I think I'm a good motivator, a good communicator and I'm also very detail oriented. So it helps me better able to break down um, people in order to delegate the more fundamentals of specific tasks in order to get them done more effectively.Yes, I consider myself a team player because I like to think I'm very fair and always open to what other people are thinking. So in Anthony Beach Achievement, um, which is an on campus student group which basically seeks to provide inner city Boston high school students with better access to reading and math comprehension to better prepare them for the SAT test. We meet with three or four of them, um, once a week on a Sunday in large groups. So they're like small groups that two mentors are a charter. So I was a part of a two person team and then we all meet together. So I would sometimes disagree with my partner as well as the mentor corps as a whole in terms of what we should be teaching and what we should be focusing on. Whether we should look more at science, whether we should have more holistic education versus just teaching to the sat. And I think that uh, basically what I would Try to do is explain my point. If the group thought that what I was saying had some merit and would like to incorporate it, I would, you know, I would feel good. But if they didn't, then I would accept the fact that that was the way they felt and, you know, majority rules and I didn't have any hard feelings. At the end of the day, I wanted West Beds for best for the kids. So in the sense I am a team player because I want what's best for the project as a whole, it's not just all about, you know, me and getting my point across. Great.I definitely think it would be making myself more, um, organized. So I'm extremely detail oriented and I see exactly what needs to be done in the timeline it needs to get done. But I guess since I'm involved with so many things, being a student as well as in a sorority, as well as, uh, pursuing various academic endeavors, I think that, um, sometimes that bogs me down. Knowing exactly what I need to get done and what timeline, and then I get, um, overstretched. But I think that that, uh, is in easy problem to fix, um, insofar as we, you know, we get more specialized over the course of our lives. And I definitely have a path that is very specialized that I intend to pursue, so that won't be a problem. And I think just maintaining basic organizational structure definitely helps me, but it m. Would be a lot easier if I didn't have to maintain anything. And that was just naturally the way I was. So. Yeah.I think I have. I'm very interested in what, uh, your company is doing, and I'm very interested in what this project specifically is related to. But I also think I have a lot to offer the group as well. Um, I am an MIT student who is given a very specific set of problem sets, problem solving skills that I think would be unique to the group. But I'm also, um, very, um, outgoing and very interested in interpersonal relationships. So I think that could help me convey our message as well as work with the technical aspect of the team. Great.Thank you.I thought it was easier because you asked for the example in that one. Like immediately when you said that I was like, there should have been an example in the second one. Like I should have given it and.So that's. Yeah, that's good.Yes.This has just made me realize, like, I need to get a real job or something to like, get some like, experience with other stuff so I can actually answer these questions. It is. But you don't get the like leadership group. Um, at least not in the one I'm doing. It's more just like I'm coding by myself.Okay.Thank you so much.How's your application going? Pretty well.
P83: How are you doing today?Good. Tell me about yourself.Great. Tell me about the time you demonstrated leadership.Tell me about the time you were working on a team and faced a challenge. How did you solve that problem?Great. And can you tell me one of your weaknesses and what you're doing to overcome it?Great. And why do you think you should get into graduate school?Okay.Brain and cognitive science. Okay.Brianna. 83. How are you doing today? Pretty good, pretty good. Getting busy with studying for finals.Um, alright. So I've been studying at MIT for three years. I initially started out as a physics major actually. So sophomore year I took a couple physics classes in relativity, um, waves and vibrations. And then one of the classes that had been recommended to me was computational neuroscience, which also accounts for physics department. So prerequisite to that was intro to neuroscience. So I took that, fell in love with neuroscience. I kind of love neuroscience. So started taking more classes in that Great needed.Um, I'm working on it. Um, definitely. I mean I do like working in a team as equal group members. Uh, I feel like I can be a leader. Um, for example, this past summer I was in China and um, they let me teach, ah, a classroom of 60 students. Um, and so that really helped to strengthen my leadership skills just in terms of classroom management and getting everyone to work together as a group.Yeah, um, I feel like I am. Um, so last summer as well, um, in China we had sort of a problem. We were trying to get some videos up on a website. Um, none of us had any computer science background. And so um, I tried to find a student who had both computer science background and spoke English to a level where we could like actually communicate. Um, so uh, participated in that in that kind of way. Okay.Hmm, let's see. Um, I'd say probably I get kind of nervous sometimes. Um, I'd say I'd like to calm down a little bit. I mean sometimes it's good, like I have lots of energy, but sometimes it's just a bit too much to be able to relax a bit more.Um, so I mean I'm very committed, but on top of that I have a very strong academic background. I've done research before in this area and um, in a similar field, but sort of um, also Different. So I think I come in with a different sort of perspective to this. And also, I mean, I come in with, like, some physics background. So I think that additionally provides a different perspective on brain and cognitive science that isn't always seen. That sort of, like, very analytical way of thinking and, like, seeing things at the most fundamental level. And I can bring that perspective in.I know I felt like. I don't know, whenever I end questions, I feel like it's not obvious. I'm done with the question.I'm doing, like, a million things right now.Okay.Yeah. Okay.So what would be a good example?Okay.Okay?
P84: I'm well, thank you. How is yourself?Um, alright. Well, as you probably know, I'm a, uh, Jr. In MIT Materials Science and Engineering. And I've spent a bit of time doing some research in materials science. But I've also recently declared a, uh, minor in course two, which is. Sorry, it's mechanical engineering. Um, so. So I'm looking for a bit of practice in industry now that I've had some research experience. I've taken a range of classes in engineering and I'm hoping to um, kind of try out what it's like to engineer combine m the two basically mechanical and materials engineering.Okay. Um, I could give you an example of a club I'm in, um, mit. I'm in Amnesty International, which is a student human rights organization. And it's very, um, decentralized, it's very student owned. And we kind of just make it whatever we want to make it at any given time. So it takes a lot of initiative to really hold the club together. And uh, we were trying to pull together a big event last semester which involved Professor Noam Chomsky coming to talk about Arab Spring. And we were hosting it in a huge lecture hall. Um, so, big venue, expecting a lot of people. Um, but it took a lot of work and none of us had really pulled such a huge event before. So um, I'd say I took a lot of initiative that I hadn't taken before in pulling that event together. I came to meetings and made sure everybody was on task, made sure that everybody had an awareness of what could go wrong as well as, um, what kind of repercussions we might be expecting if things did fall out of hand with a high profile speaker as well as some contentious issues being discussed. So, um, yeah, I did my best to really pull the team together as best as I could. Um, I didn't have an official leadership role, so my participation was ambiguously defined. But um, it was fun having a role.That's a good question. Um, so I was on the orientation group. I was an orientation leader this beginning of this year. And so we're paired off into different groups. We were the Brown team and we had a few problems getting energy with the team. And all of these freshmen, we knew that they were excited to be there. We knew that they wanted to get to know each other at mit but there was just, there was something blocking them m from talking and from getting out of orientation what they should have. So um, we pulled together as a bit of a brown group team. We had a group discussion after I think it was the second day and um, we took a few tries to pull together some new icebreakers that hadn't been in the booklet that they prepared us for and just uh, whipped that out the next day. Started yelling, got the kids off their feet and jumping. And um, one of my other co orientation leaders and I were yelling different questions at them and had to pair up or group up based on the question that we asked them and it didn't really work necessarily. Um, everybody participated though and it got them, got the blood moving and it got them kind of talking to new people. So even though the game didn't have a point, it ended up being kind of fun. It was a good way of getting to know my teammates as well.So we worked together really well on that.Yes. Um, so I have a weakness for over committing sometimes. And uh, what I have been doing in the last year or so, well since I came to mit, but particularly this year is cutting back on things that don't mean much to me. Cutting back on things that are, that have always just been interests that I've never seen myself progressing in. So um, for example I was a. I took a small leadership role in my sorority my freshman year but I wasn't. I don't see myself going very far in the leadership in my sorority. So I cut that kind of thing out. And I've been focusing on classes, sailing, I'm on the sailing team and Amnesty International. And those are my three main focus things. So although I do do other things like I was an orientation leader. Um, when I have time I give tours. That's my job, campus tour guiding. But um, I've been getting better. I've been staying more on track with classes this way and um, having sailings definitely helped. So a bit of self discipline and cutting back on things is helping me not over commit.Um, because I've researched into your country. Sorry into your company. And um. Uh, I think it's. I see a lot of, I see a lot of it in the experience that I've had. I've had international experience in companies of a scale similar to yours, although it was in the research department. Um, and I think that I could bring that international, um, perspective. I've lived in several countries as well. Uh, and I have, besides being an engineer, I have a lot of practice with teamwork and with leadership roles in. In my community, in my student groups, even in my PSEC groups, um, doing homework. M. We have to pull together a lot of presentations and a lot of, um, group reports for the material science major here. And, uh, I've, um, developed a lot of skills that I think will really help your company. Great.Um, course three, material science. So I was looking at GE. Oh, that's right.Did you want to do the same company as well?Yeah.Good, thank you. How are you?Tell me more about your background. Alright. Well, so I'm originally from Australia and um, since then my family and I have moved around a lot. So I would consider myself an international citizen. I'm actually not an American citizen, um, but I've been here studying at MIT Materials science for uh, three years now and I'm enjoying it. Um, this helped me figure out that I'm really interested in engineering and I'm really loving having a bit of material science as well as some mechanical engineering, which is what I'm doing a minor in.Yes, definitely. Um, well, I can tell you that I was told that at a leadership conference I went to earlier this year, um, we classified personalities in team working situations. And I was definitely one of the more leader type 1 people where I work well with the team, but I like to have things, I like to do things well my way or I like to at least be. If I want to see something done right, then I would like to do it right. Um, but I've had a lot of chance to practice that and I would say that I gotten pretty good at incorporating that personality type with other types of personalities in teamwork situations. So for example, I'm um, co president. I've recently been elected president of Amnesty International here on campus. So I've had a lot of experience with that group up until now, working with them, trying to lead a team, trying to help them take initiative for themselves, trying to encourage them as well as be a leader by example and do all of as much as I can handle, um, comfortably to make the club a success.Okay. Um, well, yeah, um, Amnesty International is another good example. We've had a few tensions between personalities the year before. So last year we had two co presidents and one of them was a pretty, um, opinionated person, somebody who really had strong feelings toward his vision for the club and just went for it with all of his effort into that one direction and didn't really look back and didn't really look around to see how other people felt about it. Um, which I was okay with because I saw his direction being really beneficial for the club. Um, but we had another member of the team who was not okay with that. She felt also that she had a lot to give and she felt like none of her ideas were being heard. So they would actually get into some tense email situations. And there was a bit of tension in the group, but it actually kind of became resolved during elections this year. Um, they worked together fairly well during the semester, um, especially when they weren't both in the same room at the same time, but just working via email. It was good. And then today, uh, sorry, this week during elections, they kind of all came out into the open. And now that he's not president anymore and she's in the same role as treasurer, um, it's been resolved. Um, I guess my role in that was just kind of being, um, the team player. Just tried to make whatever we were trying to do work successfully so that there was no added tension from our efforts being a failure.Oh, interesting question. I, I would like to be a better, uh, public speaker, actually. I would really like to be able to synthesize my thoughts quickly and coherently. Um, I think that would make me a better writer. And I think in general being great at communicating is one of the strongest skills that you can have to convince people to just make whatever project you're working on a success, to convince investors to invest money, to um, obtain partnerships and sponsorships, to be a good leader, to inspire. I think I would love to be able to just have an infinite vocabulary and, you know, better way of presenting my ideas.Um, I do think I am qualified for the job, um, because I've had a lot of experience in this industry. I've uh, worked in research and material science for the last two summers as well as I've had a lot of leaders experience, um, not just in Amnesty International, but also in my sorority. And um, what was the other one? I was an orientation leader for um, orientation at mit, which was a cool experience. So, um, I found a lot of different ways to develop my team working skills and I'd, uh, really like to put those toward an industry based project now, um, which I've seen a lot of, but I've never had a chance to actually try it out. So I'm excited to try that.All right.You, you're there. Um, I was like, not breathing. Okay.It was good.Yeah.I don't know if that's relevant. Um, no.Yeah.Like retrofit myself into the situation.In the very beginning.Am I listening to this story?Yes.Hopefully it'll kim at me in a different kind of.Ideas or this approach to projects.Yes. Which is for me.Okay. Okay, cool. Thank you. Okay.Yeah, no worries.Yeah.
P85: Excellent.I think they're down.Good. How are you? I'm well.Yeah, I was actually surprised that. Didn't need, like, heavy jack or anything.Okay. Well, I'm a junior here at MIT. I made double majoring in course six and 20, which is electrical engineering, computer science and bioengineering. And then I guess those are two very different things. So I get a lot of questions about why, and I think it's, um. So I came into MIT thinking I wanted to do, uh, bioengineering. And then I guess I feel like everyone around here has some relation to programming sometime. And then so I took a programming class and got bit by the bug. And then like, really just like, fell in love with it. And then so last year I decided to double major because, um, I'm actually interested in a lot of, I guess the areas of overlap between bio circuits as well as just modeling biological systems with computer science. So, um, that was a really good opportunity here and then. So, yeah.Um, I do think I'm a leader. And then I guess that's one of the things, like coming to mit. I wouldn't have said I was a leader necessarily, even though, like, I guess I was, like, did some things in high school. But, um, I think that's one of the things I'm really thankful for mit. I feel like it's really developed, uh, my ability to be confident as well as, um. I think just to motivate, uh, other people and to like. So, like, if I want to get something done or like, I think something really, like I want something really cool to have an idea, uh, then what I'll do is I'll get a couple of people together, get them motivated about it, figure out what needs to get done logistically and just assign people, make a timeline, something like that. And I think my experiences at MIT have, uh, really given me, uh, that experience as well as actually just allowing me to find these people because there's a lot of really awesome people here and they're usually willing to do the exact same thing or if you tell them about it, they'll get very excited about it. Just. You are.Uh, yeah, so I think, um, one of the things, I guess, obviously is you have to be able to take direction just as well as you give it, otherwise your team can't function. And so I guess one of the times I was on a team was, I think, um, for example, I'm a fraternity, and, uh, for the fall we have Rush, which is Basically, there's like 26 fraternities at MIT. There's 1,000 incoming freshmen, and you're essentially somewhat competing almost for them. But, uh, I guess one of the things is you're just looking for the people that are a good fit for you, but you want to meet as many people as possible. So I think one of the things then is you have to be able to take direction from, uh, our rest chair. So sometimes he needs you just to go out on campus and try to get random freshmen to the house. Sometimes you just need to go talk to people at the house and then just have a conversation with them, learn more about them. Sometimes you just need to clean dishes from the food event because we need to get to the next event. So I think, um, just being willing to take direction, doing anything, and not losing track of the, uh, bigger goal is, I think, what makes me a good team player.Alpha Delta Phi or Incentral Squad?Familiar with that? Nice restaurants.That's a really interesting question. Um, I think I would make myself, um, maybe a little bit better. I think just in, um, social situations with strangers, uh, sometimes I just can get a little bit, like, anxious. Uh, for example, I hate, like, big networking events because I never really know how to, like, walk up to someone, like, just maybe, like, have small talk and then, like, leave the conversation. Like, that's just some of the things that, like, I guess I've never really been too extroverted of a person. So I don't really, like, say necessarily. Just I'm not very good at just meeting lots of new people and getting them, like, making, like, a memorable impression, something like that. So I think that's one of the things, um, I've been trying to work on, I think that's really nice about mit is that there's a lot of people like that. And then there's a lot of research. There's a lot of, uh, sessions for people. There's a lecture that I attend. It's called networking for people who hate networking. And then I think a lot of people have the same similar, um, philosophy. So I uh, think I just definitely change to be better at that and just be better at talking to strangers and less apprehensive about approaching new people and just starting up a conversation.I did that.Okay, so I guess right now I'm looking for some software internships for the summer. And then I think why I should have that job is just because I think I've gotten the technical background with like algorithms classes, like software engineering classes. But then I've also had uh, the experiences in working as a team here at mit. Both I'm in student government, um, with my fraternity as well as I uh, guess I'm pretty independent. I think MIT really develops that in everybody. You choose your own classes, like your own activities. And I think I'm very self sufficient. So I think uh, for like maybe like supervisor. I've worked as a supervisor previous internships and I think I would just be able to take a project. I'm not afraid to ask questions if I need direction. But I'm also just, I can work alone. So I think it'd be very helpful for I guess just a supervisor because then they wouldn't have to check up on me all the time. Um, but they'd also know that I would go to them when needed. And also I'm very thorough. So I don't like leaving things. Like if there's a small mistake, I'll like, even if it takes a long time, I'll try to make sure I can iron it out. So I think for code wise that's really nice because Ming Ch have thorough testing and then it's often more bug free.Thank you.Thank you.Okay.Yeah, it definitely makes sense. I'm trying to introduce pauses, but uh, to me it always feels like a short pause. Seems like forever. But I've been trying to just longer and longer pauses as I talk and especially say like public speaking or something like that.Um, sure, I guess like, so I guess generally, I know like an interview is um, partially to make sure you're uh, technically competent for the job and then partially, I guess to make m sure if you're um, like a good fit.So I guess uh, do you think that it changes like if looking for like an internship versus like a full time. I think it changes too much because.Okay.I was just wondering because like I guess for an intern you're not really leading a team or anything like that. So I was wondering if you should talk about say leadership experiences because that's not really what you'll be doing necessarily.All right, cool. Thank you.Yeah, it was. Thank you.Thank you.Thank you.
P86: Um, like where I'm from, that type of stuff. Okay. I'm, um, junior mit. I come from South Florida, born and raised. So cold weather is kind of rough for a guy like me, but that's alright. It's kind of a nice break from the heat of South Florida. Um, I've been playing music ever since I was 4, so that's kind of been a big part of my life. Um, but music, tech, I, I mean technology obviously also. So course two here, which is mechanical engineering. Um, but I'm also dabbling in electrical, looking along the sides of control, that type of stuff. Robotics, if you will. And just had one of my, like my second or third robot finished last week, which was a freaking nightmare. But, you know, it's okay, it's done. It was a good time. So. Yeah, that's what I do. Yeah.I guess that good for you?Yeah.Leadership? Well, I guess I'm usually, um, pretty calm and collected. So if I ever notice like in a group setting, if someone's like, you know, there's some disagreement between the two. Like in my robotics group, for example, the two guys, they're best buds, but they often like, just get really heated. Like, you know, like f. Uh, you like, why don't we just do this and that type of stuff. So, yeah, in order to like keep it going, being productive, you know, someone has to be like, you know, just, guys just calm down and you know, keep doing that. So that's, that's like just here and there. Not really like super, like I'm in control but, you know, at least you know, saying get. Guys need to calm down and take a step forward. I feel like that's a little minor leadership role you gotta take there. Um, other leadership roles. Um, I play in a group, like a band, jazz group. So I often, you know, we all gotta get together and like, kinda talk. Any group setting, which I am often in, I, uh, have to like, you know, somebody has to take control. And I don't often take control initially, but, you know, if something is not going in a certain direction or the right direction, I often feel like maybe can push it there very subtly. So leadership in a very subtle way, but not in like a bam. I'm telling you what to do anyway. That's what I like to do.Okay, so for example, the robotics group, um, we worked very last minute. Um, it just happened to be one of those things where we were all busy with other things and we didn't really think about the scheduling like when the project was actually going to be due. So um, basically we all had to work really hard last minute. And of course things don't always go according to plan. So we tried to build one thing, machine something, and it ended up not being perfect the first time. So we have to go back and redesign it or remachine it. So uh, we had to do a couple, remachine a few things a couple times. And it's like six in the morning. You've been working in lab for like 13 hours. You gotta keep going. So you gotta stay positive and keep, you know, even though you may not finish or like, you know, you can't really think about not finishing, you just have to go for it and keep finishing, you know, keep working. Eventually you're good, you know, with the mindset that you are going to finish. So that's uh, I guess adversity in that way. Just always stay positive and keep looking towards the future. Keep working.So, um, time management, um, is one of my weaknesses. Which is not always the best to admit in an interview, but you know, whatever, that's alright. Um, what I've been doing to get better about it is, you know, sometimes you gotta look like even a week in advance. I've discovered, especially at mit isn't as far, you know, it's not as far as you need to go. So like this week for instance, I had like three exams, like a final robot project, another presentation I had to take care of, you know, a lab, a couple psets. Like you just. I didn't realize how much work was coming up until like last Thursday or something like that, which is when I started working. But even then, you know, I didn't have enough time. I really should have started working, you know, Monday on it when I was just relaxing, I was like, oh, you know, I got a pset to do this week, but I can really relax and it'll be all right. So um, in terms of improvement, proving that just I gotta write up a schedule and look really far in advance to make sure I really see what's coming. Yeah, I've been being better. It started off start of college where I didn't see things for three days in advance or two days in advance. And now it's kind of been like a week, week and a half. I'm looking in advance, so I'm getting there slowly but surely.Okay.Yeah, sure.For that job, you mean?Um. I feel like I know what I'm doing now. Um, I'll say there was a point in time where I didn't feel like I knew what I was doing. And I've been one of those guys that, like, you know, you can apply to a job and say, you know, yeah, uh, there's no harm in applying. Which I've kind of figured out eventually, yeah, there is no harm in applying in Greek, but. But at the same time, I feel like there's kind of like an obligation to actually know what you're doing for that job. And right now I feel like I know what I'm doing at least a lot more so than I did last year or even last semester. So at the rate I'm going, I feel like another semester of classes that I'm taking, I'll, um, really know what I'm doing, and then some more time in the field or at the job. I'll piece together and actually feel pretty confident. So that's why, I guess.Excellent.So do you think you're a leader? Can you tell me why I think.You think you're a team player. Can you tell at a time when you're working on a team and you face a challenge, how do you go about solving that challenge?Do you consider yourself a team player? Can you give me an example where there was a conflict in your team? And you had to resolve it.That always helps. So if you were to change one thing about yourself, what would it be?Now I'd like to think about a job that you'd like to have.Yeah. One of mine?Good. So now why should we do this? Child.Well, thank you. Appreciate your coming here to interview today. Sure. Um, I'd like to write a few suggestions on how you can improve this going forward.Sure. So I think you come off as a really personable guy. Very warm, uh, a little funny. It's enjoyable to talk to. Uh, so there's some things you can do. You can move out a little bit. You can have a little bit bigger posture just by.Yeah, a little bigger by kind of opening up a little. The second thing is that while you have some sort of good story about Dan and Tyler and their problem, how do you know what the problem was? And I'm not really sure how you're a leader because you told me about something, but it wasn't specific, and so I can't really remember what it was. If you can tell me a situation you were in, the task you were given your actions and then the results of those actions and really try to hit on all these points, I'll have a much clearer picture in my mind as to how you're a leader, how you're a team play. And at the end, when you try to tell me that you're a team player and you're prepared to lead, instead of saying, I'm good at this, you could just say, I've done this and this and this, and you can justify your excellence not by claiming your excellence, but by showing it through the stories. Does that make sense?Was a little taken aback when you said I'm a great roboticist or something along those lines. And I'm sure you are. But if you can tell me, show me that through the stories, it won't feel like boasting.Does that make sense?Exactly. And I was on my ass lab competition at MT and we picked up a can and we won the competition. We spent a whole month working together in a tight quarters group. I'm just making up sort of mask.Just to give you. Have you done Mask lover?Do it this way.It's a big time commitment. But anyway, so I guess that's kind of my thought is if you can just kind of paint a picture of like what it means to be as you're holed up in a room, you know, 60 hours a week working, you know, next to each other or whatever, and tensions can escalate or disagreement about whether you should use a distance sensor or sonar. I'm just making something up. But anyway.Does that help?Do you have any questions for me?I think so.Uh, it was a little slower, I think, a little more personable, a little more open. So it was good. Stepped in the right direction. But these first stories could be a little bit longer and that would make them better because we more to work with and they'd be more memorable.That's awesome. Well, that helps a lot. Of course. Yeah. Thanks, Adrian. So we'll take these things off. Sure.Turn them off.Dog up on here.
P89: So I'm a junior at MIT here and a uh, physics major. And uh, yeah, besides classes, I'm involved in the juggling club. And let's see, I'm from Pensacola, Florida and I've uh, lived there ever since I was born there and grew up there and uh. Um. Yeah, lived there and, and moved up here and um. Yeah, I'm in Zeta Psi fraternity and uh. Yeah, so. Yeah, yeah, right above uh, Chicago pizza and. Yeah. You want me to go into more detail or just general? Yeah, um, yeah. So I, I don't do too much um, as far as extracurriculars, but I was involved with Frisbee freshman year for a little bit and played on the club team. There's not a varsity team here, uh, so I was pretty good. Like that a lot. And I'm not sure as far as career wise what I want to go into, but as a physics major I'm looking into something um, technical probably like electrical engineering related. Um, and. Yeah, but I'm trying to size that up right now. Junior's a pretty pivotal year for, you know, deciding long term things. So, brief summary of me.Well, high school, uh, senior year, probably the best time. I, uh, helped organize a math competition. Um, so there was no major, uh, middle school math competition in Pensacola, Florida. And so I just uh, teamed up with a few people in my year in high school and we helped organize, uh. Yeah, competition. It's been going on for the past three years and uh, hopefully I'll go fourth year. So that was one of the most stressful things but most rewarding as well. Yeah. So as far as leadership goes, that and I mean more recently I guess juggling club has been uh, my main leadership thing. We organize different gigs, um, and perform various places.Um, so that would most commonly have been this past semester I took junior lab, which is the physics, uh, lab class and lots of challenges. Frequently, uh, it was me and a partner who worked on um, three different experiments. And um, specifically, I guess, let me think because yeah, we had three major experiments. And the second experiment was very hands on, which was cool, but also meant there was a lot of faulty uh, equipment. And um, I mean, I guess we both just a general thing, we both learned just to kind of talk it through because it's so easy to um, get like in your head and you're working with Somebody. So, you know, you'll be thinking one thing and they'll be thinking another. But, uh. Um. Yeah, I guess that's not very specific, but I mean. Yeah, that's the first thing that came in on. Well, thank you.Um. Yeah, weakness. Um. I guess I, uh. As far as this is this kind of general thing that I've kind of come to realization of recently, I need to, um. I don't know, as I am kind of getting along with my undergraduate career and looking at, um, you know, what I'll do after self advocacy is, like, huge thing that. And I. I really gotten too much into that. But, like, I mean, I feel like a major thing for, like, taking the next step, like, after graduation is like, self advocacy. And so, like, whether it's like having your own website or just like. I mean, just general networking, I guess is the biggest thing. But, yeah, that's. I don't know, something that I realized that I need to kind of work.That was important. Yeah.Um, yeah.Okay.Why do I think I should have this job?Um. I feel like I'm a pretty, um, creative person and, uh, you know, having a bit of technical background here and, um, a good work ethic, I feel like I genuinely have those traits. Um, yeah, I feel like I communicate pretty well for, um. I'm not saying, you know, general, uh, physics majors can't communicate well, just in general, I feel like, especially this past semester, I've taken the lab class and been able to give a lot of oral presentations and kind of found a strength there. And so I think kind of bringing a solid, like, communication element to, like, a technical field is pretty important. So, um, yeah, I feel like I'm pretty qualified in that regard.Good. How are you doing?Good, Good. Almost throughout the semester, so.Yeah.Yeah. Yeah.Well, yeah, I mean, I'll be at home for the first two weeks, but I'm actually going to Mexico for a week.That's gonna be nice. Gotta brush up on my Spanish though. It's been a while.Yeah.So is it all right if I kind of talk about some of the same stuff as the first time, same person? Because I haven't changed too much, but. Yeah. So still a junior at MIT here and, um, about, uh, halfway through junior year. And I'm a physics major. Um, and I'm from Pensacola, Florida. And, um, I'm born and raised in Pensacola and I just, um, moved up here a couple years ago and started at mit. And I'm not sure as far as what I'm going to go into career wise, but I'm looking at something applied in the physics area. And, um, as far as extracurriculars go, I do a few things. I'm involved with, uh, a few IM sports that my fraternity does, uh, soccer and basketball. Uh, and I enjoy juggling and unicycling as well. Uh, I've unicycled since fifth grade and I've done that a lot. And, um, I'm involved with the juggling club here and I like to play ultimate Frisbee as well from time to time, just for fun. And um, yeah, so, you know, enjoy doing sports in my spare time. But, uh, yeah, physics as far as school goes.Tell me why do I think I'm a leader? A leader? Um, yeah, in, uh, some senses. As far as leadership experience I've had, I've enjoyed more of the small group type things. Um, like I mentioned before, uh, in high school I've led a small group of students to do a, uh, community service project where we organized a math competition. And, um, uh, I enjoy doing, um. For one of my internships I worked in a robotics, uh, firm. And it was a pretty small group. It was four or five of us. But I, um, got to kind of have some leadership on some of the tasks there and that was fun. Uh, juggling club's a little Bit of a leadership position. There's a few people I kind of oversee there. So, um. And you know, those few leadership experiences I've had have been really good. Um, um, you know, I guess besides those three, I haven't had any, you know, larger scale leadership experiences with, uh, you know, more people, but those I have enjoyed. So I guess I consider myself a leader in that regard.Yeah. Um, so, I mean, this past semester I've done some team stuff. Just one on one with a partner from my, um, uh, lab class. And um, so I got to kind of do some team playing there. But, um, I guess another time was last January. I was in Mexico, um, as well. But this time was with an exchange program. And uh, it was the whole month. Next month I'll just be going back for fun for a week. But uh, yeah, it was through Misty, uh, Mexico. And it was me and two other students at a high school. And um, uh, we basically got there and we thought they were going to know what we were supposed to do. It was the first time they had done the program. And uh, we get there and they were like, okay, well what are you guys going to do? And we were like, well, we're going to ask you the same thing. So I. But we kind of had to come together with the three of us and figure out what to do. Um, so we, uh, kind of talked. At first. We all kind of had familiarity with a lot of different subjects, uh, as far as like, especially applications of what these students were learning, like calculus and physics and how to demonstrate those. So, um, we decided to each give little lectures on topics that were relevant to what the students were learning. They might, you know, going in a certain field to apply later on, like especially calculus, but also the physics classes. And so I ended up doing kind of two main things. I gave a few physics demonstrations, uh, and you know, they had some equipment there. I just talked about like vectors and how to, how to add those and force equations. And then, um, you know, we had a couple weights and then walked through the class how to predict how they would work out and you know, actually measured it. And so that was cool. And um, yeah, so I helped. You know, all the three of us students collaborated on what we should talk about and uh, you know, because we kind of were familiar with what everybody else was talking about. So. Yeah, and it turned out pretty well. We Ended up helping them out with, uh, getting their students to have some faith in how these things they're learning are applied in the real world. Uh, yeah, major time where big obstacles.Let's see. Well, the first thing that popped in m my mind was that, um, if I was a little shorter, I could be an astronaut. But I think the height requirement actually has changed for that from what I've heard. So I'm six three and I think a few years ago it was six one, which is the cutoff. I think that's.Okay. Yeah, that too. Um, I guess. Let's see here. Um. Uh, I guess as far as larger scale decisions go, like, um, kind of being decisive. And I think this is like a common problem for undergraduates here. And uh, because, you know, you come in and there's I guess a major way American school is different from maybe schools in other countries. We have all the options open and so, um, you know, it's a tough thing to, you know, have all these options and be decisive with one thing. Um, and being able to like, you know, if you're in an environment where you're just kind of more restricted, you can just put yourself more to that. But, um, yeah, I think that's um, you know, as far as larger scales go and smaller scales too, with, um, you know, whether it's, I don't know, just managing things day to day, I feel like, you know, time management's a major part of that's just being able to be like decisive. So. Yeah, I think decision making would be the main thing.Yeah.Um, well, well, I'm standing by one of the things I mentioned before, which is like, mainly, uh, that I think I communicate pretty well, uh, as far as small groups. I've had a good amount of experience working with people, um, in real time problem solving. So I've had experience there and I think that's a major attribute that I can bring to the board and bring to the table. And um, as far as experience goes. Yeah. Things I mentioned before, just coming back, as far as like, diversity of background and being able to bring multiple perspectives, I've kind of had experience with physics and um, more like applied things like robotics. Um, yeah. So I think that diversity of things really helps.Yeah. Thank you, Scorps.Okay.Ah, you had a lot of them.Yeah, yeah, no, definitely. I mean, it's because I'm trying to figure out which one to talk about and kind of dive right into it. That's a good way to just overview the situation.Yeah, no, I tend to do that when I'm trying to brainstorm topics or whatever to talk about.Yeah.Oh, thank you.